 Toggle navigationHomeLatest UpdateAdventureChristianFantasyHistoricalHorrorHumorousMysteryRomanceScience FictionThrillerWesternYoung AdultTop BooksPreySphereBlack RoseThe Great Train RobberyBlue DahliaCarnal InnocenceDance Upon the AirHigh NoonLawlessSacred SinsTributeFace the FireHolding the DreamA Man for AmandaAll the PossibilitiesNextThe Great Hunt 40 () 40 (Adam) Damane Egwene dismounted as the Waygate opened, and when Liandrin motioned them through, she led the shaggy mare carefully out. Even so, she and Bela both stumbled in brush flattened by the opening Waygate as they suddenly seemed to be moving even more slowly. A screen of dense shrubs had surrounded and hidden the Waygate. There were only a few trees close by, and a morning breeze ruffled foliage with a little more color than the leaves had had in Tar Valon. Watching her friends emerge after her, she had been standing there a good minute before she became aware that others were already there, just out of sight on the other side of the gates. When she did notice them she stared uncertainly; they were as odd a group as she had ever seen, and she had heard too many rumors Armored men, at least fifty of them, with overlapping steel plates down their chests and dull black helmets shaped like insects heads, sat their saddles or stood beside their horses, staring at her and the emerging women, staring at the Waygate, muttering among themselves. The only bareheaded man among them, a tall, darkfaced, hooknosed fellow standing with a gildedandpainted helmet on his hip, looked astonished at what he was seeing. There were women with the soldiers, too. Two wore plain, dark gray dresses and wide silver collars, and stood staring intently at those coming out of the Waygate, each with another woman close behind her as if ready to speak into her ear. Two other women, standing a little apart, wore wide, divided skirts that came well short of their ankles, and panels embroidered with forked lightning bolts on their bosoms and skirts. Oddest of all was the last woman, reclining on a palanquin borne by eight muscular, barechested men in baggy black trousers. The sides of her scalp were shaved so that only a wide crest of black hair remained to fall down her back. A long, creamcolored robe worked in flowers and birds on blue ovals was carefully arranged to show her skirts of pleated white, and her fingernails were a good inch long, the first two on each hand lacquered blue. "Liandrin Sedai," Egwene asked uneasily, "do you know who these people are?" Her friends fingered their reins as if wondering whether to mount and run, but Liandrin replaced the Avendesora leaf and stepped forward confidently as the Waygate began to close. "The High Lady Suroth?" Liandrin said, making it halfway between a question and statement. The women on the palanquin nodded fractionally. "You are Liandrin." Her speech was slurred, and it took Egwene a moment to understand. "Aes Sedai," Suroth added with a twist to her lips, and a murmur rose among the soldiers. "We must be done here quickly, Liandrin. There are patrols, and it would not do to be found. You would enjoy the attentions of the Seekers for Truth no more than I. I mean to be back in Falme before Turak knows I am gone." "What are you talking about?" Nynaeve demanded. "What is she talking about, Liandrin?" Liandrin laid a hand on Nynaeves shoulder and one on Egwenes. "These are the two of whom you were told. And there is another." She nodded toward Elayne. "She is the DaughterHeir of Andor." The two women with the lightning on their dresses were approaching the party in front of the Waygate - they carried coils of some silvery metal in their hands, Egwene noticed - and the bareheaded soldier came with them. He did not put a hand near the sword hilt sticking up above his shoulder, and he wore a casual smile, but Egwene still watched him narrowly. Liandrin gave no sign of agitation; otherwise Egwene would have jumped onto Bela right then. "Liandrin Sedai," she said urgently, "who are these people? Are they here to help Rand and the others, too?" The hooknosed man suddenly seized Min and Elayne by the scruffs of their necks, and in the next instant everything seemed to happen at once. The man yelled a curse, and a woman screamed, or perhaps more than one woman; Egwene could not be sure. Abruptly the breeze was a gale that whipped away Liandrins angry shout in clouds of dirt and leaves and made the trees bend and groan. Horses reared and whinnied shrilly. And one of the women reached out and fastened something around Egwenes neck. Cloak flapping like a sail, Egwene braced against the wind and tugged at what felt like a collar of smooth metal. It would not budge; under her frantic fingers, it felt all of one piece, though she knew it had to have some kind of clasp. The silvery coils the woman had carried now trailed over Egwenes shoulder, their other end joining a bright bracelet on the womans left wrist. Balling her fist tightly, Egwene hit the woman as hard as she could, right in her eye - and staggered and fell to her knees herself, head ringing. It felt as if a large man had struck her in the face. When she could see straight once more, the wind had died. A number of horses wandered loose, Bela and Elaynes mare among them, and some of the soldiers were cursing and picking themselves up off the ground. Liandrin was calmly brushing dust and leaves from her dress. Min knelt, supporting herself with her hands, groggily trying to rise further. The hooknosed man stood over her, his hand dripping blood. Mins knife lay just out of her reach, the blade stained red along one side. Nynaeve and Elayne were nowhere to be seen, and Nynaeves mare was gone, too. So were some of the soldiers, and one of the pairs of women. The other two were still there, and Egwene could see now that they were linked by a silver cord just like the one that still joined her to the woman standing over her. That woman was rubbing her cheek as she squatted beside Egwene; there was a bruise already coming up around her left eye. With long, dark hair and big brown eyes, she was pretty, and perhaps as much as ten years older than Nynaeve. "Your first lesson," she said emphatically. There was no animosity in her voice, but what almost sounded like friendliness. "I will not punish you further this time, since I should have been on guard with a newly caught damane. Know this. You are a damane, a Leashed One, and I am a suldam, a Holder of the Leash. When damane and suldam are joined, whatever hurt the suldam feels, the damane feels twice over. Even to death. So you must remember that you may never strike at a suldam in any way, and you must protect your suldam even more than yourself. I am Renna. How are you called?" "I am not ... what you said," Egwene muttered. She pulled at the collar again; it gave no more than before. She thought of knocking the woman down and trying to pry the bracelet from her wrist, but rejected it. Even if the soldiers did not try to stop her - and so far they seemed to be ignoring her and Renna altogether - she had the sinking feeling the woman was telling the truth. Touching her left eye brought a wince; it did not feel puffy, so perhaps she was not actually growing a bruise to match Rennas, but it still hurt. Her left eye, and Rennas left eye. She raised her voice. "Liandrin Sedai? Why are you letting them do this?" Liandrin dusted her hands together, never looking in her direction. "The very first thing you must learn," Renna said, "is to do exactly as you are told, and without delay." Egwene gasped. Suddenly her skin burned and prickled as if she had rolled in stinging nettles, from the soles of her feet to her scalp. She tossed her head as the burning sensation increased. "Many suldam," Renna went on in that almost friendly tone, "do not believe damane should be allowed names, or at least only names they are given. But I am the one who took you, so I will be in charge of your training, and I will allow you to keep your own name. If you do not displease me too far. I am mildly upset with you now. Do you really wish to keep o Quivering, Egwene gritted her teeth. Her nails dug into her palms with the effort of not scratching wildly. Idiot! Its only your name. "Egwene," she managed to get out. "I am Egwene alVere." Instantly the burning itch was gone. She let out a long, unsteady breath. "Egwene," Renna said. "That is a good name." And to Egwenes horror, Renna patted her on the head as she would a dog. That, she realized, was what she had detected in the womans voice - a certain good will for a dog in training, not quite the friendliness one might have toward another human being. Renna chuckled. "Now you are even angrier. If you intend to strike at me again, remember to make it a small blow, for you will feel it twice as hard as I. Do not attempt to channel; that you will never do without my express command." Egwenes eye throbbed. She pushed herself to her feet and tried to ignore Renna, as much as it was possible to ignore someone who held a leash fastened to a collar around your neck. Her cheeks burned when the other woman chuckled again. She wanted to go to Min, but the amount of leash Renna had let out would not reach that far. She called softly, "Min, are you all right?" Sitting slowly back on her heels, Min nodded, then put a hand to her head as if she wished she had not moved it. Jagged lightning crackled across the clear sky, then struck among the trees some distance off. Egwene jumped, and suddenly smiled. Nynaeve was still free, and Elayne. If anyone could free her and Min, Nynaeve could. Her smile faded into a glare for Liandrin. For whatever the reason the Aes Sedai had betrayed them, there would be a reckoning. Someday. Somehow. The glare did no good; Liandrin did not look away from the palanquin. The barechested men knelt, lowering the palanquin to the ground, and Suroth stepped down, carefully arranging her robe, then picked her way to Liandrin on softslippered feet. The two women were much of a size. Brown eyes stared levelly into black. "You were to bring me two," Suroth said. "Instead, I have only one, while two run loose, one of them more powerful by far than I had been led to believe. She will attract every patrol of ours within two leagues." "I brought you three," Liandrin said calmly. "If you cannot manage to hold them, perhaps our master should find another among you to serve him. You take fright at trifles. If patrols come, kill them." Lightning flashed again in the near distance, and moments later something roared like thunder not far from where it struck; a cloud of dust rose into the air. Neither Liandrin nor Suroth took any notice. "I could still return to Falme with two new damane," Suroth said. "It grieves me to allow an ... Aes Sedai" - she twisted the words like a curse - "to walk free." Liandrins face did not change, but Egwene saw a nimbus abruptly glow around her. "Beware, High Lady," Renna called. "She stands ready!" There was a stir among the soldiers, a reaching for swords and lances, but Suroth only steepled her hands, smiling at Liandrin over her long nails. "You will make no move against me, Liandrin. Our master would disapprove, as I am surely needed here more than you, and you fear him more than you fear being made damane." Liandrin smiled, though white spots marked her cheeks with anger. "And you, Suroth, fear him more than you fear me burning you to a cinder where you stand." "Just so. We both fear him. Yet even our masters needs will change with time. All marathdamane will be leashed eventually. Perhaps I will be the one who places the collar around your lovely throat." "As you say, Suroth. Our masters needs will change. I will remind you of it on the day when you kneel to me." A tall leatherleaf perhaps a mile away suddenly became a roaring torch. "This grows tiresome," Suroth said. "Elbar, recall them." The hooknosed man produced a horn no bigger than his fist; it made a hoarse, piercing cry. "You must find the woman Nynaeve," Liandrin said sharply. "Elayne is of no importance, but both the woman and this girl here must be taken with you on your ships when you sail." "I know very well what has been commanded, marathdamane, though I would give much to know why." "However much you were told, child," Liandrin sneered, "that is how much you are allowed to know. Remember that you serve and obey. These two must be removed to the other side of the Aryth Ocean and kept there." ed. "I will not remain here to find this Nynaeve. My usefulness to our master will be at an end if Turak hands me over to the Seekers for Truth." Liandrin opened her mouth angrily, but Suroth refused to allow her a word. "The woman will not remain free for long. Neither of them will. When we sail again, we will take with us every woman on this miserable spit of land who can channel even slightly, leashed and collared. If you wish to remain and search for her, do so. Patrols will be here soon, thinking to engage the rabble that still hides in the countryside. Some patrols take damane with them, and they will not care what master you serve. Should you survive the encounter, the leash and collar will teach you a new life, and I do not believe our master will trouble to deliver one foolish enough to let herself be taken." "If either is allowed to remain here," Liandrin said tightly, "our master will trouble himself with you, Suroth. Take them both, or pay the price." She strode to the Waygate, clutching the reins of her mare. Soon it was closing behind her. The soldiers who had gone after Nynaeve and Elayne came galloping back with the two women linked by leash, collar, and bracelet, the damane and the suldam riding side by side. Three men led horses with bodies across the saddles. Egwene felt a surge of hope when she realized the bodies all wore armor. They had not caught Nynaeve or Elayne, either one. Min started to rise to her feet, but the hooknosed man planted a boot between her shoulder blades and drove her to the ground. Gasping for breath, she twitched there weakly. "I beg permission to speak, High Lady," he said. Suroth made a small motion with her hand, and he went on. "This peasant cut me, High Lady. If the High Lady has no use for her...?" Suroth motioned slightly again, already turning away, and he reached over his shoulder for the hilt of his sword. "No!" Egwene shouted. She heard Renna curse softly, and suddenly the burning itch covered her skin again, worse than before, but she did not stop. "Please! High Lady, please! She is my friend!" Pain such as she had never known wracked her through the burning. Every muscle knotted and cramped; she pitched on her face in the dirt, mewling, but she could still see Elbars heavy, curved blade come free of its sheath, see him raise it with both hands. &ldq Abruptly, the pain was gone as if it had never been; only the memory remained. Suroths blue velvet slippers, dirtstained now, appeared in front of her face, but it was at Elbar that she stared. He stood there with his sword over his head and all his weight on the foot on Mins back ... and he did not move. "This peasant is your friend?" Suroth said. Egwene started to rise, but at a surprised arching of Suroths eyebrow, she remained lying where she was and only raised her head. She had to save Min. If it means groveling ... She parted her lips and hoped her gritted teeth would pass for a smile. "Yes, High Lady." "And if I spare her, if I allow her to visit you occasionally, you will work hard and learn as you are taught?" "I will, High Lady." She would have promised much more to keep that sword from splitting Mins skull. Ill even keep it, she thought sourly, as long as I have to. "Put the girl on her horse, Elbar," Suroth said. "Tie her on, if she cannot sit her saddle. If this damane proves a disappointment, perhaps then I will let you have the head of the girl." She was already moving toward her palanquin. Renna pulled Egwene roughly to her feet and pushed her toward Bela, but Egwene had eyes only for Min. Elbar was no gentler with Min than Renna with her, but she thought Min was all right. At least Min shrugged off Elbars attempt to tie her across her saddle and climbed onto her gelding with only a little help. The odd party started off, westward, with Suroth leading and Elbar slightly to the rear of her palanquin, but close enough to heed any summons immediately. Renna and Egwene rode at the back with Min, and the other suldam and damane, behind the soldiers. The woman who had apparently meant to collar Nynaeve fondled the coiled silver leash she still carried and looked angry. Sparse forest covered the rolling land, and the smoke of the burning leatherleaf was soon only a smudge in the sky behind them. "You were honored," Renna said after a time, "having the High Lady speak to you. Another time, I would let you wear a ribbon to mark the honor. But since you brought her attention on yourself ..." Egwene cried out as a switch seemed to lash across her back, then another across her leg, her arm. From every direction they seemed to come; she knew there was nothing to block, but she could not help throwing her arms about as if to stop the blows. She bit her lip to stifle her moans, but tears still rolled down her cheeks. Bela whinnied and danced, but Rennas grip on the silver leash kept her from carrying Egwene away. None of the soldiers even looked back. "What are you doing to her?" Min shouted. "Egwene? Stop it!" "You live on sufferance ... Min, is it?" Renna said mildly. "Let this be a lesson for you as well. So long as you try to interfere, it will not stop." Min raised a fist, then let it fall. "I wont interfere. Only, please, stop it. Egwene, Im sorry." The unseen blows went on for a few moments more, as if to show Min her intervention had done nothing, then ceased, but Egwene could not stop shuddering. The pain did not go away this time. She pushed back the sleeve of her dress, thinking to see weals; her skin was unmarked, but the feel of them was still there. She swallowed. "It was not your fault, Min." Bela tossed her head, eyes rolling, and Egwene patted the mares shaggy neck. "It wasnt yours, either." "It was your fault, Egwene," Renna said. She sounded so patient, dealing so kindly with someone who was too dense to see the right, that Egwene wanted to scream . "When a damane is punished, it is always her fault, even if she does not know why. A damane must anticipate what her suldam wants. But this time, you do know why. Damane are like furniture, or tools, always there ready to be used, but never pushing themselves forward for attention. Especially not for the attention of one of the Blood." Egwene bit her lip until she tasted blood. This is a nightmare. It cant be real. Why did Liandrin do this? Why it this happening? "May ... may I ask a question?" "Of me, you may." Renna smiled. "Many suldam will wear your bracelet over the years - there are always many more suldam than damane - and some would have your hide in strips if you took your eyes off the floor or opened your mouth without permission, but I see no reason not to let you speak, so long as you are careful in what you say." One of the other suldam snorted loudly; she was linked to a pretty, darkhaired woman in her middle years who kept her eyes on her hands. "Liandrin" - Egwene would not give her the honorific, not ever again - "and the High Lady spoke of a master they both serve." The thought came into her head of a man with almost healed burns marring his face, and eyes and mouth that sometimes turned to fire, but even if he was only a figure in her dreams that seemed too horrible to contemplate. "Who is he? What does he want with me and - and Min?" She knew it was silly to avoid naming Nynaeve - she did not think any of these people would forget her just because her name was not mentioned, especially the blueeyed suldam stroking her empty leash - but it was the only way she could think of fighting back at the moment. "The affairs of the Blood," Renna said, "are not for me to take notice of, and certainly not for you. The High Lady will tell me what she wishes me to know, and I will tell you what I wish you to know. Anything else that you hear or see must be to you as if it never was said, as if it never happened. This way lies safety, most especially for a damane. Damane are too valuable to be killed out of hand, but you might find yourself not only soundly punished, but absent a tongue to speak or hands to write. Damane can do what they must without these things." Egwene shivered, though the air was not very cold. Pulling her cloak up onto her shoulders, her hand brushed the leash, and she jerked at it fitfully. "This is a horrible thing. How can you do this to anyone? What diseased mind ever thought of it?" The blueeyed suldam with the empty leash growled, "This one could do without her tongue already, Renna." Renna only smiled patiently. "How is it horrible? Could we allow anyone to run loose who can do what a damane can? Sometimes men are born who would be marathdamane if they were women - it is so here also, I have heard - and they must be killed, of course, but the women do not go mad. Better for them to become damane than make trouble contending for power. As for the mind that first thought of the adam, it was the mind of a woman who called Egwene knew incredulity must be painting her face, because Renna laughed openly. "When Luthair Paendrag Mondwin, son of the Hawkwing, first faced the Armies of the Night, he found many among them who called themselves Aes Sedai. They contended for power among themselves and used the One Power on the field of battle. One such, a woman named Deain, who thought she could do better serving the Emperor - he was not Emperor then, of course - since he had no Aes Sedai in his armies, came to him with a device she had made, the first adam, fastened to the neck of one of her sisters. Though that woman did not want to serve Luthair, the adam required her to serve. Deain made more adam, the first suldam were found, and women captured who called themselves Aes Sedai discovered that they were in fact only marathdamane, Those Who Must Be Leashed. It is said that when she herself was leashed, Deains screams shook the Towers of Midnight, but of course she, too, was a marathdamane, and marathdamane cannot be allowed to run free. Perhaps you will be one of those who has the ability to make adam. If so, you will be pampered, you may rest assured." Egwene looked yearningly at the countryside through which they rode. The land was beginning to rise in low hills, and the thin forest had dwindled to scattered thickets, but she was sure she could lose herself in them. "Am I supposed to look forward to being pampered like a pet dog?" she said bitterly. "A lifetime of being chained to men and women who think I am some kind of animal?" "Not men." Renna chuckled. "All suldam are women. If a man put on this bracelet, most of the time it would be no different than if it were hanging on a peg on the wall." "And sometimes," the blueeyed suldam put in harshly, "you and he would both die screaming." The woman had sharp features and a tight, thinlipped mouth, and Egwene realized that anger was apparently her permanent expression. "From time to time the Empress plays with lords by linking them to a damane. It makes the lords sweat and entertains the Court of the Nine Moons. The lord never knows until it is done whether he will live or die, and neither does the damane. " Her laugh was vicious. "Only the Empress can afford to waste damane in such a way, Alwhin," Renna snapped, "and I do not mean to train this damane only to have her thrown away." "I have not seen any training at all so far, Renna. Only a great deal of chatter, as if you and this damane were girlhood friends." "Perhaps it is time to see what she can do," Renna said, studying Egwene. "Do you have enough control yet to channel at that distance?" She pointed to a tall oak standing alone on a hilltop. Egwene frowned at the tree, perhaps half a mile from the line followed by the soldiers and Suroths palanquin. She had never tried anything much beyond arms reach, but she thought it might be possible. "I dont know," she said. "Try," Renna told her. "Feel the tree. Feel the sap in the tree. I want you to make it all not only hot, but so hot that every drop of sap in every branch flashes to steam in an instant. Do it." Egwene was shocked to discover an urge to do as Renna commanded. She had not channeled, or even touched saidar, in two days; the desire to fill herself with the One Power made her shiver. "I" - in half a heartbeat she discarded "will not"; the weals that were not there still burned too sharply for her to be quite that foolish - "cannot," she finished instead. "It is too far, and Ive never done anything like that before." One of the suldam laughed raucously, and Alwhin said, "She never even tried." Renna shook her head almost sadly. "When one has been a suldam long enough," she told Egwene, "one learns to tell many things about damane even without the bracelet, but with the bracelet one can always tell whether a damane has tried to channel. You must never lie to me, or to any suldam, not even by a hair." Suddenly the invisible switches were back, striking at her everywhere. Yelling, she tried to hit Renna, but the suldam casually knocked her fist away, and Egwene felt as if Renna had hit her arm with a stick. She dug her heels into Belas flanks, but the suldams grip on the leash nearly pulled her out of her saddle. Frantically she reached for saidar, meaning to hurt Renna enough to make her stop, just the kind of hurt she herself had been given. The suldam shook her head wryly; Egwene howled as her own skin was suddenly scalded. Not until she fled from saidar completely did the burn begin to fade, and the unseen blows never ceased or slowed. She tried to shout that she would try, if only Renna would stop, but all she could manage was to scream and writhe. Dimly, she was aware of Min shouting angrily and trying to ride to her side, of Alwhin tearing Mins reins from her hands, of another suldam speaking sharply to her damane, who looked at Min. And then Min was yelling, too, arms flapping as if trying to ward off blows or beat away stinging insects. In her own pain, Mins seemed distant. Their cries together were enough to make some of the soldiers twist in their saddles. After one look, they laughed and turned back. How suldam dealt with damane was no affair of theirs. To Egwene it seemed to go on forever, but at last there was an end. She lay sprawled weakly across the cantle of her saddle, cheeks wet with tears, sobbing into Belas mane. The mare whickered uneasily. "It is good that you have spirit," Renna said calmly. "The best damane are those who have spirit to be shaped and molded." Egwene squeezed her eyes shut. She wished she could close her ears, too, to shut out Rennas voice. I have to get away. I have to, but how? Nynaeve, help me. Light, somebody help me. "You will be one of the best," Renna said in tones of satisfaction. Her hand stroked Egwenes hair, a mistress soothing her dog. Nynaeve leaned out of her saddle to peer around the screen of prickly leafed shrubs. Scattered trees met her eyes, some with leaves turning color. The expanses of grass and brush between seemed empty. Nothing moved that she could see except the thinning column of smoke, wavering in a breeze, from the leatherleaf. That had been her work, the leatherleaf, and once the lightning called from a clear sky, and a few other things she had not thought to try until those two women tried them on her. She thought they must work together in some way, though she could not understand their relation to each other, apparently leashed as they were. One wore a collar, but the other was chained as surely as she. What Nynaeve was sure of was that one or both were Aes Sedai. She had never had a clear enough sight of them to see the glow of cha Ill certainly take pleasure in telling Sheriam about them, she thought dryly. Aes Sedai dont use the Power as a weapon, do they? She certainly had. She had at least knocked the two women down with that lightning strike, and she had seen one of the soldiers, or his body rather, burn from the ball of fire she made and hurled at them. But she had not seen any of the strangers at all in some time now. Sweat beaded on her forehead, and it was not all from exertion. Her contact with saidar was gone, and she could not bring it back. In that first fury of knowing that Liandrin had betrayed them, saidar had been there almost before she knew it, the One Power flooding her. It had seemed she could do anything. And as long as they had chased her, rage at being hunted like an animal had fueled her. Now the chase had vanished. The longer she had gone without seeing an enemy at whom she could strike, the more she had begun to worry that they might be sneaking up on her somehow, and the more she had had time to worry about what was happening to Egwene, and Elayne, and Min. Now she was forced to admit that what she felt most was fear. Fear for them, fear for herself. It was anger she needed. Something stirred behind a tree. Her breath caught, and she fumbled for saidar, but all the exercises Sheriam and the others had taught her, all the blossoms unfolding in her mind, all the imagined streams that she held like riverbanks, did no good. She could feel it, sense the Source, but she could not touch it. Elayne stepped from behind the tree in a wary crouch, and Nynaeve sagged with relief. The DaughterHeirs dress was dirty and torn, her golden hair was a tangle of snarls and leaves, and her searching eyes were as wide as those of a frightened fawn, but she held her shortbladed dagger in a steady hand. Nynaeve picked up her reins and rode into the open. Elayne gave a convulsive jump, then her hand went to her throat and she drew a deep breath. Nynaeve dismounted, and the two women hugged, taking comfort in having found each other. "For a moment," Elayne said as they finally stepped apart, "I thought you were... Do you know where they are? There were two men following me. Another few minutes and they would have caught me, but a horn sounded and they turned their horses and galloped off. They could see me, Nynaeve, and they just left." "I heard it, too, and I havent seen any of them since. Have you seen Egwene, or Min?" Elayne shook her head, slumping to sit on the ground. "Not since... That man hit Min, knocked her down. And one of those women was trying to put something around Egwenes neck. I saw that much before I ran. I dont think they got away, Nynaeve. I should have done something. Min cut the hand that was holding me, and Egwene ... I just ran, Nynaeve. I realized I was free, and I ran. Mother had better marry Gareth Bryne and have another daughter as soon as she can. I am not fit to take the throne." "Dont be a goose," Nynaeve said sharply. "Remember, I have a packet of sheepstongue root among my herbs." Elayne had her head in her hands; the gibe did not even produce a murmur. "Listen to me, girl. Did you see me stay to fight twenty or thirty armed men, not to mention the Aes Sedai? If you had waited, the most likely thing by far is that you would be a prisoner, too. If they didnt just kill you. They seemed to be interested in Egwene and me for some reason. They might not have cared whether you remained alive or not." Why are they interested in Egwene and me? Why us in particular? Why did Liandrin do this? Why? She had no more answers now than she had had the first time she asked herself these questions. "If I had died trying to help them -" Elayne began. "- youd be dead. And little good youd be then, to yourself or them. Now get on your feet and brush off your dress." Nynaeve rummaged in her saddlebags for a hairbrush. "And fix your hair." Elayne got up slowly, and took the brush with a small laugh. "You sound like Lini, my old nurse." She began to run the brush through her hair, wincing as tangles pulled. "But how are we going to help them, Nynaeve? You may be as strong as a full sister when you are angry, but they have women who can channel, too. I cannot think theyre Aes Sedai, but they might as well be. We do not even know in which direction they took them." "West," Nynaeve said. "That creature Suroth mentioned Falme, and thats as far west on Toman Head as you can go. We will go to Falme. I hope Liandrin is there. I will make her curse the day her mother laid eyes on her father. But first I think we had better find some clothes of the country. Ive seen Taraboner and Domani women in the Tower, and what they wear is nothing like what we have on. We would stand out in Falme as strangers." "I would not mind a Domani dress - though Mother would surely have a fit if she ever found out Id worn one, and Lini would never let me hear the end of it - but even if we find a village, can we afford new dresses? I have no idea how much money you have, but I have only ten gold marks and perhaps twice that in silver. That will keep us two or three weeks, but I dont know what we will do after that." "A few months as a novice in Tar Valon," Nynaeve said, laughing, "has not stopped you thinking like the heir to a throne. I dont have a tenth what you do, but altogether it will keep us two or three months, in comfort. Longer, if we are careful. I have no intention of buying us dresses, and they wont be new in any case. My gray silk dress will do us some good, with all those pearls and that gold thread. If I cant find a woman who will trade us each two or three sturdy changes for that, I will give you this ring, and I will be the novice." She swung up into her saddle and reached a hand down to pull Elayne up behind her. "What are we going to do when we reach Falme?" Elayne asked as she settled on the mares rump. "I wont know that until we are there." Nynaeve paused, letting the horse stand. "Are you sure you want to do this? It will be dangerous." "More dangerous than it is for Egwene and Min? They would come after us if our circumstances were reversed; I know they would. Are we going to stay here all day?" Elayne dug her heels in, and the mare started off. Nynaeve turned the horse until the sun, still short of its noonday crest, shone at their backs. "We are going to have to be cautious. The Aes Sedai we know can recognize a woman who can channel just by being within arms length of her. These Aes Sedai may be able to pick us out of a crowd if they are looking for us, and we had better assume they are." They were certainly looking f "Yes, cautious. You were right before, too. We will not do them any good letting ourselves be caught as well." Elayne was silent for a moment. "Do you think it was all lies, Nynaeve? What Liandrin told us about Rand being in danger? And the others? Aes Sedai do not lie." It was Nynaeves turn to be silent, remembering Sheriam telling her of the oaths a woman took on being raised to full sisterhood, oaths spoken inside a terangreal that bound her to keep them. To speak no word that is not true. That was one, but everyone knew that the truth an Aes Sedai said might not be the truth you thought you heard. "I expect Rand is warming his feet in front of Lord Agelmars fire in Fal Dara this minute," she said. I cant worry about him, now. I have to think about Egwene and Min. "I suppose he is," Elayne said with a sigh. She shifted behind the saddle. "If it is very far to Falme, Nynaeve, I expect to ride in the saddle half the time. This is not a very comfortable seat. We will never reach Falme at all if you let this horse set her own pace the whole way." Nynaeve booted the mare to a quick trot, and Elayne yelped and caught at her cloak. Nynaeve told herself that she would take a turn riding behind and not complain if Elayne put the horse to a gallop, but for the most part she ignored the gasps of the woman bouncing behind her. She was too busy hoping that by the time they reached Falme, she could stop being afraid and start being angry. The breeze freshened, cool and brisk with a hint of cold yet to come. PROLOGUE