 Toggle navigationHomeLatest UpdateAdventureChristianFantasyHistoricalHorrorHumorousMysteryRomanceScience FictionThrillerWesternYoung AdultTop BooksPreySphereBlack RoseThe Great Train RobberyBlue DahliaCarnal InnocenceDance Upon the AirHigh NoonLawlessSacred SinsTributeFace the FireHolding the DreamA Man for AmandaAll the PossibilitiesNextThe Great Hunt 36 () 36 (Leaf) Among the Elders As Juin took them through the Ogier town, Rand saw that Loial was growing more and more anxious. Loials ears were as stiff as his back; his eyes grew bigger every time he saw another Ogier looking at him, especially the women and girls, and a large number of them did seem to take notice of him. He looked as if he expected his own execution. The bearded Ogier gestured to wide steps leading down into a grassy mound that was bigger by far than any other; it was a hill, for all practical purposes, almost at the base "Why dont you wait out here, Loial?" Rand said. "The Elders -" Juin began. "- Probably just want to see the rest of us," Rand finished for him. "Why dont they leave him alone," Mat put in. Loial nodded vigorously. "Yes. Yes, I think ..." A number of Ogier women were watching him, from whitehaired grandmothers to daughters Eriths age, a knot of them talking among themselves but with all eyes on him. His ears jerked, but he looked at the broad door to which the stone steps led down, and nodded again. "Yes, I will sit out here, and Ill read. That is it. I will read." Fumbling in his coat pocket, he produced a book. He settled himself on the mound beside the steps, the book small in his hands, and fixed his eyes on the pages. "I will just sit here and read until you come out." His ears twitched as if he could feel the womens eyes. Juin shook his head, then shrugged and motioned to the steps again. "If you please. The Elders are waiting." The huge, windowless room inside the mound was scaled for Ogier, with a thickbeamed ceiling more than four spans up; it could have fit in any palace, for size at least. The seven Ogier seated on the dais directly in front of the door made it shrink a little by their size, but Rand still felt as if he were in a cavern. The somber floorstones were smooth, if large and irregular in shape, but the gray walls could have been the rough side of a cliff. The ceiling beams, roughhewn as they were, looked like great roots. Except for a highbacked chair where Verin sat facing the dais, the only furnishings were the heavy, vinecarved chairs of the Elders. The Ogier woman in the middle of the dais sat in a chair raised a little higher than those of the others, three bearded men to her left in long, flaring coats, three women to her right in dresses like her own, embroidered in vines and flowers from neckline to hem. All had aged faces and pure white hair, even to the tufts on their ears, and an air of massive dignity. Hurin gaped at them openly, and Rand felt like staring himself. Not even Verin had the appearance of wisdom that was in the Elders huge eyes, nor Morgase in her crown their authority, nor Moiraine their calm serenity. Ingtar was the first to bow, as formally as Rand had ever seen from him, while the others still stood rooted. "I am Alar," the Ogier woman on the highest chair said when they had finally taken their places beside Verin, "Eldest of the Elders of Stedding Tsofu. Verin has told us that you have need to use the Waygate here. To recover the Horn of Valere from Darkfriends is a great need, indeed, but we have allowed none to travel the Ways in more than one hundred years. Neither us, nor the Elders of any other stedding." "I will find the Horn," Ingtar said angrily. "I must. If you will not permit us to use the Waygate ..." He fell silent as Verin looked at him, but the scowl remained on his face. Alar smiled. "Be not so hasty, Shienaran. You humans never take time for thought. Only decisions reached in calm can be sure." Her smile faded to seriousness, but her voice kept its own measured calm. "The dangers of the Ways are not to be faced with a sword in your hand, not charging Aiel or ravening Trollocs. I must tell you that to enter the Ways is to risk not only death and madness, but perhaps your very souls." "We have seen Machin Shin," Rand said, and Mat and Perrin agreed. They could not manage to sound eager to do it again. "I will follow the Horn to Shayol Ghul itself, if need be," Ingtar said firmly. Hurin only nodded as if including himself in Ingtars words. "Bring Trayal," Alar commanded, and Juin, who had remained by the door, bowed and left. "It is not enough," she told Verin, "to hear what can happen. You must see it, know it in your heart." There was an uncomfortable silence until Juin returned, and it became more uncomfortable still as two Ogier women followed him, guiding a darkbearded Ogier of middle years, who shambled between them as if he did not quite know how his legs worked. His face sagged, without any expression at all, and his big eyes were vacant and unblinking, not staring, not looking, not even seeming to see. One of the women gently wiped drool from the corner of his mouth. They took his arms to stop him; his foot went forward, hesitated, then fell back with a thump. He seemed as content to stand as to walk, or at least as uncaring. "Trayal was one of the last among us to go along the Ways," Alar said softly. "He came out as you see him. Will you touch him, Verin?" Verin gave her a long look, then rose and strode to Trayal. He did not move as she laid her hands on his wide chest, not even a flicker of an eye to acknowledge her touch. With a sharp hiss, she jerked back, staring up at him, then whirled to face the Elders. "He is ... empty. This body lives, but there is nothing inside it. Nothing." Every Elder wore a look of unbearable sadness. "Nothing," one of the Elders to Alars right said softly. Her eyes seemed to hold all the pain Trayals no longer could. "No mind. No soul. Nothing of Trayal remains but his body." "He was a fine Treesinger," one of the men sighed. Alar motioned, and the two women turned Trayal to lead him out; they had to move him before he began to walk. "We know the risks," Verin said. "But whatever the risks, we must follow the Horn of Valere." The Eldest nodded. "The Horn of Valere. I do not know whether it is worse news that it is in Darkfriend hands, or that it has been found at all." She looked down the row of Elders; each nodded in turn, one of the men tugging his beard doubtfully first. "Very well. Verin tells me time is urgent. I will show you to the Waygate myself." Rand was feeling half relieved and half afraid, when she added, "You have with you a young Ogier. Loial, son of Arent son of Halan, from Stedding Shangtai. He is far from his home." ed him," Rand said quickly. His words slowed under surprised stares from the Elders and Verin, but he went on stubbornly. "We need him to go with us, and he wants to." "Loials a friend," Perrin said, at the same time that Mat said, "He doesnt get in the way, and he carries his own weight." Neither of them appeared comfortable at having the Elders focus shift to them, but they did not back down. "Is there some reason he cannot come with us?" Ingtar asked. "As Mat says, he has held his own. I dont know that we need him, but if he wants to "We do need him," Verin broke in smoothly. "Few any longer know the Ways, but Loial has studied them. He can decipher the Guidings." Alar eyed them each in turn, then settled to a study of Rand. She looked as if she knew things; all the Elders did, but she most of all. "Verin says you are taveren," she said at last, "and I can feel it in you. That I can do so means that you must be very strongly taveren indeed, for such Talents ever run weakly in us, if at all. Have you drawn Loial, son of Arent son of Halan, into tamaralailen, the Web the Pattern weaves around you?" "I ... I just want to find the Horn and ..." Rand let the rest of it die. Alar had not mentioned Mats dagger. He did not know whether Verin had told the Elders, or held it back for some reason. "He is my friend, Eldest." "Your friend," Alar said. "He is young by our way of thinking. You are young, too, but taveren. You will look after him, and when the weaving is done, you will see that he comes safely home to Stedding Shangtai." "I will," he told her. It had the feeling of a commitment, the swearing of an oath. "Then we will go to the Waygate." Outside, Loial scrambled to his feet when they appeared, Alar and Verin leading. Ingtar sent Hurin off at a run to fetch Uno and the other soldiers. Loial eyed the Eldest warily, then fell in with Rand at the rear of the procession. The Ogier women who had been watching him were all gone. "Did the Elders say anything about me? Did she ...?" He peered at Alars broad back as she ordered Juin to have their horses brought. She started off with Verin while Juin was still bowing himself away, bending her head to talk quietly. "She told Rand to take care of you," Mat told Loial solemnly as they followed, "and see you got home safely as a babe. I dont see why you cant stay here and get married." "She said you could come with us." Rand glared at Mat, which made Mat chortle under his breath. It sounded odd, coming from that drawn face. Loial was twirling the stem of a trueheart blossom between his fingers. "Did you go picking flowers?" Rand asked. "Erith gave it to me." Loial watched the yellow petals spin. "She really is very pretty, even if Mat does not see it." "Does that mean you dont want to go with us after all?" Loial gave a start. "What? Oh, no. I mean, yes. I do want to go. She only gave me a flower. Just a flower." He took a book out of his pocket, though, and pressed the blossom under the front cover . As he returned the book, he murmured to himself, barely loud enough for Rand to hear, "And she said I was handsome, too." Mat let out a wheeze and doubled over, staggering along clutching his sides, and Loials cheeks colored. "Well ... she said it. I didnt." Perrin rapped Mat smartly on the top of his head with his knuckles. "Nobody ever said Mat was handsome. Hes just jealous." "Thats not true," Mat said, straightening abruptly. "Neysa Ayellin thinks Im handsome. Shes told me so more than once." "Is Neysa pretty?" Loial asked. "She has a face like a goat," Perrin said blandly. Mat choked, trying to get his protests out. Rand grinned in spite of himself. Neysa Ayellin was almost as pretty as Egwene. And this was almost like old times, almost like being back home, bantering back and forth, and nothing more important in the world than a laugh and twitting the other fellow. As they made their way through the town, Ogier greeted the Eldest, bowing or curtsying, eyeing the human visitors with interest. Alars set face kept anyone from stopping to speak, though. The only thing that indicated when they left the town was the absence of the mounds; there were still Ogier about, examining trees, or sometimes working with pitch and saw or axe where there were dead limbs or where a tree needed more sunlight. They handled the tasks tenderly. Juin joined them, leading their horses, and Hurin came riding with Uno and the other soldiers, and the packhorses, just before Alar pointed and said, "It is over there." The banter died. Rand felt a momentary surprise. The Waygate had to be Outside the stedding - the Ways had been begun with the One Power; they could not have been made inside - but there was nothing to indicate they had crossed the boundary. Then he realized there was a difference; the sense of something lost that he had felt since entering the stedding was gone. That gave him another sort of chill. Saidin was there again. Waiting. Alar led them past a tall oak, and there in a small clearing stood the big slab of the Waygate, the front of it delicately worked in tightly woven vines and leaves from a hundred different plants. Around the edge of the clearing the Ogier had built a low stone coping that seemed as if it had grown there, suggesting a circle of roots. The look of it made Rand uncomfortable. It took him a moment to realize that the roots suggested were those of bramble and briar, burningleaf and itch oak. Not the sort of plants into which anyone would want to stumble. The Eldest stopped short of the coping. "The wall is meant to warn away any who comes here. Not that many of us do. I myself will not cross it. But you may." Juin did not go as close as she did; he kept rubbing his hands on the front of his coat, and would not look at the Waygate. "Thank you," Verin told her. "The need is great, or I would not have asked it." as the Aes Sedai stepped over the coping and approached the Waygate. Loial took a deep breath and muttered to himself. Uno and the rest of the soldiers shifted in their saddles and loosened swords in their scabbards. There was nothing along the Ways against which a sword would be any use, but it was something to convince themselves they were ready. Only Ingtar and the Aes Sedai seemed calm; even Alar gripped her skirt with both hands. Verin plucked the Avendesora leaf, and Rand leaned forward intently. He knew an urge to assume the void, to be where he could reach saidin if he needed to. The greenery carved across the Waygate stirred in an unfelt breeze, leaves fluttering as a gap opened down the center of the mass and the two halves began to swing open. Rand stared at the first crack. There was no dull, silvery reflection behind it, only blackness blacker than pitch. "Close it!" he shouted. "The Black Wind! Close it!" Verin took one startled look and thrust the threepointed leaf back in among all the varied leaves already there; it stayed when she took her hand away and backed toward the coping. As soon as the Avendesora leaf was back in its place, the Waygate immediately began to close. The crack disappeared, vines and leaves merging, hiding the blackness of Machin Shin, and the Waygate was only stone again, if stone carved in a nearer semblance of Alar let out a shuddering breath. "Machin Shin. So close." "It didnt try to come out," Rand said. Juin made a strangled sound. "I have told you," Verin said, "the Black Wind is a creature of the Ways. It cannot leave them." She sounded calm, but she still wiped her hands on her skirt. Rand opened his mouth, then gave it up. "And yet," she went on, "I wonder at it being here. First in Cairhien, now here. I wonder." She gave Rand a sidelong glance that made him jump. The look was so quick that he did not think anyone else noticed it, but to Rand it seemed to connect him with the Black Wind. "I have never heard of this," Alar said slowly, "Machin Shin waiting when a Waygate was opened. It always roamed the Ways. But it has been long, and perhaps the Black Wind hungers, and hopes to catch some unwary one entering a gate. Verin, assuredly you cannot use this Waygate. And however great your need, I cannot say I am sorry. The Ways belong to the Shadow, now." Rand frowned at the Waygate. Could it be following me? There were too many questions. Had Fain somehow ordered the Black Wind? Verin said it could not be done. And why would Fain demand that he follow, then try to stop him? He only knew that he believed the message. He had to go to Toman Head. If they found the Horn of Valere and Mats dagger under a bush tomorrow, he still had to go. Verin stood with eyes unfocused in thought. Mat was sitting on the coping with his head in his hands, and Perrin watched him worriedly. Loial seemed relieved that they could not use the Waygate, and ashamed at being relieved. "We are done for here," Ingtar announced. "Verin Sedai, I followed you here against my better judgment, but I can no longer follow. I mean to return to Cairhien. Barthanes can tell me where the Darkfriends went, and somehow I will make him do it." "Fain went to Toman Head," Rand said wearily. "And where he went, thats where the Horn is, and the dagger." "I suppose ... " Perrin shrugged reluctantly. "I suppose we could try another Waygate. At another stedding?" Loial stroked his chin and spoke quickly, as if to make up for his relief at the failure here. "Stedding Cantoine lies just above the River Iralell, and Stedding Taijing is east of it in the Spine of the World. But the Waygate in Caemlyn, where the grove was, is closer, and the gate in the grove at Tar Valon is closest of all." "Whichever Waygate we try to use," Verin said absently, "I fear we will find Machin Shin waiting." Alar looked at her questioningly, but the Aes Sedai said no more that anyone could hear. She muttered to herself instead, shaking her head as if arguing with herself. "What we need," Hurin said diffidently, "is one of those Portal Stones." He looked to Alar, then Verin, and when neither told him to stop, he went on, sounding increasingly confident. "The Lady Selene said those old Aes Sedai had studied those worlds, and that was how they knew how to make the Ways. And that place we were ... well, it only took us two days less to travel a hundred leagues. If we could use a Portal Stone to go to that world, or one like it, why, itd take no more than a week or two to reach the Aryth Ocean, and we could come back right on Toman Head. Maybe it isnt so quick as the Ways, but its a long sight quicker than riding off west. What do you say, Lord Ingtar? Lord Rand?" Verin answered him. "What you suggest might be possible, sniffer, but as well hope to open this Waygate again and find Machin Shin gone as hope to find a Portal Stone. I know none closer than the Aiel Waste. Though we could go back into Kinslayers Dagger, if you, or Rand, or Loial think you could find that Stone again." Rand looked at Mat. His friend had lifted his head hopefully at this talk of the Stones. A few weeks, Verin had said. If they simply rode west, Mat would never live to see Toman Head. "I can find it," Rand said reluctantly. He felt ashamed. Mats going to die, Darkfriends have the Horn of Valere, Fain will hurt Emonds Field if you dont follow him, and youre afraid to channel the Power. Once to go and once to come back. Twice more wont drive you mad. What really made him afraid, though, was the eagerness that leaped inside him at the thought of channeling again, of feeling the Power fill him, of feeling truly alive. "I do not understand this," Alar said slowly. "The Portal Stones have not been used since the Age of Legends. I did not think there was anyone who still knew how to use them." "The Brown Ajah knows many things," Verin said dryly, "and I know how the Stones may be used." The Eldest nodded. "Truly there are wonders in the White Tower of which we do not dream. But if you can use a Portal Stone, there is no need for you to ride to Kinslayers Dagger. There is a Stone not far from where we stand." "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills, and the Pattern provides what is needful." The absent look dropped from Verins face altogether. "Take us to it," she said briskly. "We have lost more than enough time already." PROLOGUE