 Toggle navigationHomeLatest UpdateAdventureChristianFantasyHistoricalHorrorHumorousMysteryRomanceScience FictionThrillerWesternYoung AdultTop BooksPreySphereBlack RoseThe Great Train RobberyBlue DahliaCarnal InnocenceDance Upon the AirHigh NoonLawlessSacred SinsTributeFace the FireHolding the DreamA Man for AmandaAll the PossibilitiesNextThe Great Hunt 42 () 42 (InsectLike, Horned Helmet) Falme Nynaeve pressed Elayne back into the narrow alleyway between a cloth merchants shop and a potters works as the pair of women linked by a silvery leash passed by, heading down the cobblestone street toward Falme harbor. They did not dare allow that pair to come too close. The people in the street made way for those two even more quickly than they did for Seanchan soldiers, or the occasional nobles palanquin, thickly curtained now that the days were cold. Even the street artists did not offer to draw them in chalks or pencils, although they pestered everyone else. Nynaeves mouth tightened as her eyes followed the suldam and the damane through the crowd. Even after weeks in the town, the sight sickened her. Perhaps it sickened her more, now. She could not imagine doing that to any woman, not even Moiraine or Liandrin. Well, maybe Liandrin, she admitted sourly. Sometimes, at night, in the small, smelly room the two of them had rented above a fishmonger, she thought of what she would like to do to Liandrin when she got her hands on her. Liandrin even more than Suroth. More than once she had been shocked at her own cruelty, even while she was delighted at her inventiveness. Still trying to keep the pair in sight, her eyes fell on a bony man, well down the street, before the shifting throng hid him again. She had only a flash of a big nose in a narrow face. He wore a rich bronze velvet robe of Seanchan cut over his clothes, but she thought that he was no Seanchan, though the servant following him was, and a servant of high degree, with one temple shaved. The local people had not taken to Seanchan fashions, particularly that one. That looked like Padan Fain, she thought incredulously. It couldnt be. Not here. "Nynaeve," Elayne said softly, "could we move on, now? That fellow selling apples is looking at his table as if hes thinking he had more a few moments ago, and I would not want him wondering what I have in my pockets." They both wore long coats made of sheepskin, with the fleece turned in and bright red spirals embroidered across the breast. It was country garb, but it passed well enough in Falme, where many people had come in from the farms and villages. Among so many strangers the two of them had been able to sink in unnoticed. Nynaeve had combed out her braid, and her gold ring, the serpent eating its own tail, now nestled under her dress beside Lans heavy ring on the leather cord around her neck. The large pockets of Elaynes coat bulged suspiciously. "You stole those apples?" Nynaeve hissed quietly, pulling Elayne out into the crowded street. "Elayne, we dont have to steal. Not yet, anyway." "No? How much money do we have left? You have been not hungry very often at mealtimes the last few days." "Well, I am not hungry," Nynaeve snapped, trying to ignore the hollow in her middle. Everything cost considerably more than she had expected; she had heard local people complaining about how prices had risen since the Seanchan came. "Give me one of those." The apple Elayne dug out of her pocket was small and hard, but it crunched with a delicious sweetness when Nynaeve bit into it. She licked the juice from her lips. "How did you manage to - " She jerked Elayne to a halt and peered into her face. "Did you ... ? Did you ... ?" She could not think of a way to say it with so many streaming by, but Elayne understood. "Only a little. I made that stack of old melons with the soft spots fall, and when he started putting them back ..." She did not even have the grace, as Nynaeve saw it, to blush or look embarrassed. Unconcernedly eating one of the apples, she shrugged. "There is no need to frown at me like that. I looked carefully to make sure there was no damane close." She sniffed. "If I were being held prisoner, I would not help my captors find other women to enslave. Although, the way these Falmen behave, you would think they were lifelong servants of those who should be their enemies to the death." She looked around, openly contemptuous, at the people hurrying by; it was possible to follow the path of any Seanchan, even common soldiers and even at a distance, by the ripples of bowing. "They should resist. They should fight back." "How? Against ... that." They had to step to the side of the street along with everyone else as a Seanchan patrol neared, climbing from the direction of the harbor. Nynaeve managed the bow, hands on knees, with face schooled to a perfect smoothness; Elayne was slower, and made her bow with a distasteful twist of her mouth. There were twenty armored men and women in the patrol, riding horses, for which Nynaeve was grateful. She could not become used to seeing people riding things that looked like bronzescaled, tailless cats, and a rider on one of the flying beasts was always enough to make her feel dizzy; she was glad there were so few of them. Still, two leashed creatures trotted along with the patrol, like wingless birds with coarse leather skin, and sharp beaks higher above the cobblestones than the helmeted heads of the soldier. Their long, sinewy legs looked as if they could run faster than any horse. She straightened slowly after the Seanchan were gone. Some of those who had bowed for the patrol came close to running; no one was comfortable at the sight of the Seanchans beasts except the Seanchan themselves. "Elayne," she said softly as they resumed their climb, "if we are caught, I swear that before they kill us, or do whatever they do, I will beg them on bended knees to let me stripe you from top to bottom with the stoutest switch I can find! If you still cant learn to be careful, maybe its time to think about sending you back to Tar Valon, or home to Caemlyn, or anywhere but here." "I am careful. At least I looked to be sure there was no damane close by. What about you? I have seen you channel with one in plain sight." "I made sure they werent looking at me," Nynaeve muttered. She had had to ball up all her anger at women being chained like animals to manage it. "And I only did it once. And it was only a trickle." "A trickle? We had to spend three days hiding in our room breathing fish while they searched the town for whoever had done it. Do you call that being careful?" "I had to know if there was a way to unfasten those collars." She thought there was. She would have to test one more collar at least before she was certain, and she was not looking forward to it. She had thought, like Elayne, that the damane must all be prisoners eager to escape, but it had been the woman in the A man pushing a barrow that bumped over the cobblestones passed by them, crying his services to sharpen scissors and knives. "They should resist, somehow," Elayne growled. "They act as if they do not see anything that happens around them if theres a Seanchan in it." Nynaeve only sighed. It did not help that she thought Elayne was at least partly right. At first she had thought some of the Falmen submission, at least, must be a pose, but she had found no evidence of any resistance at all. She had looked at first, hoping to find help in freeing Egwene and Min, but everyone took fright at the merest hint that they might oppose the Seanchan, and she stopped asking before she drew the wrong sort of attention. In truth, she could not imagine how the people could fight. Monsters and Aes Sedai. How can you fight monsters and Aes Sedai? Ahead stood five tall stone houses, among the largest in the town, all together making up a block. One street short of them, Nynaeve found an alleyway beside a tailor shop, where they could keep an eye on some of the tall houses entrances, at least. It was not possible to see every door at once-she did not want to risk letting Elayne go off on her own to watch more-but it was not wise to go any closer. Above the rooftops, on the next street, the golden hawk banner of the High Lord Turak flapped in the wind. Only women went in or out of those houses, and most of those were suldam, alone or with damane in tow. The buildings had been taken over by the Seanchan to house the damane. Egwene had to be in there, and likely Min; they had found no sign of Min so far, though it was possible she was as hidden by the crowds as they. Nynaeve had heard many tales of women and girls being seized on the streets or brought in from the villages; they all went into those houses, and if they were seen again, they wore a collar. Settling herself on a crate beside Elayne, she dug into the other womans coat for a handful of the small apples. There were fewer local folk in the streets here. Everyone knew what the houses were, and everyone avoided them, just as they avoided the stables where the Seanchan kept their beasts. It was not difficult to keep an eye on the doors through spaces between the passersby. Just two women stopping for a bite; just two more people who could not afford to eat at an inn. Nothing to attract more than a passing glance. Eating mechanically, Nynaeve tried once more to plan. Being able to open the collar - if she really could - did no good at all unless she could reach Egwene. The apples did not taste so sweet anymore. From the narrow window of her tiny room under the eaves, one of a number roughly walled together from whatever had been there before, Egwene could see the garden where damane were being walked by their suldam. It had been several gardens before the Seanchan knocked down the walls that separated them and took the big houses to keep their damane. The trees were all but leafless, but the damane were still taken out for air, whether they wanted it or not. Egwene watched the garden because Renna was down there, talking with another suldam, and as long as she could see Renna, then Renna was not going to enter and surprise her. Some other suldam might come - there were many more suldam than damane, and every suldam wanted her turn wearing a bracelet; they called it being complete - but Renna still had charge of her training, and it was Renna who wore her bracelet four times out of five. If anyone came, they would find no impediment to entering. There were no locks on the doors of damanes rooms. Egwenes room held only a hard, narrow bed, a washstand with a chipped pitcher and bowl, one chair and a small table, but it had no room for more. Damane had no need of comfort, or privacy, or possessions. Damane were possessions. Min had a room just like this, in another house, but Min could come and go as she would, or almost as she would. Seanchan were great ones for rules; they had more, for everyone, than the White Tower did for novices. Egwene stood far back from the window. She did not want any of the women below to look up and see the glow that she knew surrounded her as she channeled the One Power, probing delicately at the collar around her neck, searching futilely; she could not even tell whether the band was woven or made of links - sometimes it seemed one, sometimes the other - but it seemed all of a piece all the time. It was only a tiny trickle of the Power, the merest drip that she could imagine, but it still beaded sweat on her face and made her stomach clench. That was one of the properties of the adam; if a damane tried to channel without a suldam wearing her bracelet, she felt sick, and the more of the Power she channeled, the sicker she became. Lighting a candle beyond the reach of her arm would have made Egwene vomit. Once Renna had ordered her to juggle her tiny balls of light with the bracelet lying on the table. Remembering still made her shudder. Now, the silver leash snaked across the bare floor and up the unpainted wooden wall to where the bracelet hung on a peg. The sight of it hanging there made her jaws clench with fury. A dog leashed so carelessly could have run away. If a damane moved her bracelet as much as a foot from where it had last been touched by a suldam ... Renna had made her do that, too - had made her carry her own bracelet across the room. Or try to. She was sure it had only been minutes before the suldam snapped the bracelet firmly on her own wrist, but to Egwene the screaming and the cramps that had had her writhing on the floor had seemed to go on for hours. Someone tapped at the door, and Egwene jumped, before she realized it could not be a suldam. None of them would knock first. She let saidar go, anyway; she was beginning to feel decidedly ill . "Min?" "Here I am for my weekly visit," Min announced as she slipped inside and shut the door. Her cheeriness sounded a little forced, but she always did what she could to keep Egwenes spirits up. "How do you like it?" She spun in a little circle, showing off her dark green wool dress of Seanchan cut. A heavy, matching cloak hung over her arm. There was even a green ribbon catching up her dark hair, though her hair was hardly long enough for it. Her knife was still in its sheath at her waist, though. Egwene had been surprised when Min first showed up wearing it, but it seemed the Seanchan trusted everyone. Until they broke a rule. "Its pretty," Egwene said cautiously. "But, why?" "I havent gone over to the enemy, if that is what you are thinking. It was this, or else find someplace to stay out in the town, and maybe not be able to visit you again." She started to straddle the chair as she would have in breeches, gave a wry shake of her head, and turned it around to sit. "Everyone has a place in the Pattern," she mimicked, "and the place of everyone must be readily apparent. That old hag Mulaen apparently got tired of not knowing what my place was on sight and decided I ranked with the serving girls. She gave me the choice. You should see some of the things Seanchan serving girls wear, the ones who serve the lords. It might be fun, but not unless I was betrothed, or, better yet, married. Well, theres no going back. Not yet, anyway. Mulaen burned my coat and breeches." Grimacing to show what she thought of that, she picked up a rock from a small pile on the table and bounced it from hand to hand. "It isnt so bad," she said with a laugh, "except that it has been so long since I wore skirts that I keep Egwene had had to watch her clothes being burned, too, including that lovely green silk. It had made her glad she had not brought more of the clothes the Lady Amalisa had given her, though she might never see any of them, or the White Tower, again. What she had on now was the same dark gray all damane wore. Damane have no possessions, it had been explained to her. The dress a damane wears, the food she eats, the bed she sleeps in, are all gifts from her suldam. If a suldam chooses that a damane sleep on the floor instead of in a bed, or in a stall in a stable, it is purely the choice of the suldam. Mulaen, who had charge of the damane quarters, had a droning nasal voice, but she was sharp with any damane who did not remember every word of her boring lectures. "I dont think there will be any going back for me ever," Egwene said, sighing, sinking down on her bed. She gestured to the rocks on the table. "Renna gave me a test, yesterday. I picked out the piece of iron ore, and the copper ore, blindfolded, every time she mixed them up. She left them all here to remind me of my success. She seemed to think it was some kind of reward to be reminded." "It doesnt seem any worse than the rest - not nearly as bad as making things explode like fireworks - but couldnt you have lied? Told her you didnt know which was which?" "You still do not know what this is like." Egwene tugged at the collar; pulling did no more good than channeling had. "When Renna is wearing that bracelet, she knows what I am doing with the Power, and what I am not. Sometimes she even seems to know when she isnt wearing it; she says suldam develop - an affinity, she calls it - after a while." She sighed. "No one even thought to test me on this earlier. Earth is one of the Five Powers that was strongest in men. When I picked out those rocks, she took me outside the town, and I was able to point right to an abandoned iron mine. It was all overgrown, and there wasnt any opening to be seen at all, but once I knew how, I could feel the iron ore still in the ground. There hasnt been enough to make it worth working in a hundred years, but I knew it was there. I couldnt lie to her, Min. She knew I had sensed the mine as soon as I did. She was so excited, she promised me a pudding with my supper." She felt her cheeks growing hot, in anger and embarrassment. "Apparently," she said bitterly, "I am now too valuable to be wasted making things explode. Any damane can do that; only a handful can find ores in the ground. Light, I hate making things explode, but I wish that was all I could do." The color in her cheeks deepened. She did hate it, making trees tear themselves to splinters and the earth erupt; that was meant for battle, for killing, and she wanted no part of it. Yet anything the Seanchan let her do was another chance to touch saidar, to feel the Power flowing through her. She hated the things Renna and the other suldam made her do, but she was sure that she could handle much more of the Power now than she could before leaving Tar Valon. She certainly knew she could do things with it that no sister in the Tower had ever thought of doing; they never thought of tearing the earth apart to kill men. "Perhaps you wont have to worry about any of it much longer," Min said, grinning. "Ive found us a ship, Egwene. The captain has been held here by the Seanchan, and he is about ready to sail with or without permission." "If he will take you, Min, go with him," Egwene said wearily. "I told you Im valuable, now. Renna says in a few days theyre sending a ship back to Seanchan. Just to take me." Mins grin vanished, and they stared at each other. Suddenly Min hurled her rock at the pile on the table, scattering them. "There has to be a way out of here. There has to be a way to take that bloody thing off your neck!" Egwene leaned her head back against the wall. "You know the Seanchan have collected every woman theyve been able to find who can channel even a speck. They come from all over, not just from here in Falme, but from the fishing villages, and from farming towns inland. Taraboner and Domani women, passengers off ships theyve stopped. There are two Aes Sedai among them." "Aes Sedai!" Min exclaimed. By habit she looked around to make sure no Seanchan had overheard her saying that name. "Egwene, if there are Aes Sedai here, they can help us. Let me talk to them, and - " "They cant even help themselves, Min. I only talked to one - her name is Ryma; the suldam dont call her that, but thats her name; she wanted to make sure I knew it - and she told me there is another. She told me in between bouts of tears. Shes Aes Sedai, and she was crying, Min! She has a collar on her neck, they make her answer to Pura, and she cant do anything more about it than I can. They captured her when Falme fell. She was crying because shes beginning to stop fighting against it, because she cannot take being punished anymore. She was crying because she wants to take her own life, and she cannot even do that without permission. Light, I know how she feels!" Min shifted uneasily, smoothing her dress with suddenly nervous hands. "Egwene, you dont want to ... Egwene, you must not think of harming yourself. I will get you out somehow. I will!" "I am not going to kill myself," Egwene said dryly. "Even if I could. Let me have your knife. Come on. I wont hurt myself. Just hand it to me." Min hesitated before slowly taking her knife from its sheath at her waist. She held it out warily, obviously ready to leap if Egwene tried anything. Egwene took a deep breath and reached for the hilt. A soft quiver ran through the muscles of her arm. As her hand came within a foot of the knife, a cramp suddenly contorted her fingers. Eyes fixed, she tried to force her hand closer. The cramp seized her whole arm, knotting muscles to her shoulder. With a groan, she sank back, rubbing her arm and concentrating her thoughts on not touching the knife. Slowly, the pain began to lessen. Min stared at her incredulously. "What ...? I dont understand." "Damane are not allowed to touch a weapon of any kind." She worked her arm, feeling the tightness go. "Even our meat is cut for us. I dont want to hurt myself, but I could not if I did want to. No damane is ever left alone where she might jump from a height - that window is nailed shut - or throw herself in a river." "Well, thats a good thing. I mean ... Oh, I dont know what I mean. If you could jump in a river Egwene went on dully, as if the other woman had not spoken. "They are training me, Min. The suldam and the adam are training me. I cannot touch anything I even think of as a weapon. A few weeks ago I considered hitting Renna over the head with that pitcher, and I could not pour wash water for three days. Once Id thought of it that way, I not only had to stop thinking about hitting her with it, I had to convince myself I would never, under any circumstances, hit her with it before I could touch it again. She knew what had happened, told me what I had to do, and would not let me wash anywhere except with that pitcher and bowl. You are lucky it happened between your visiting days. Renna made sure I spent those days sweating from the time I woke to the time I fell asleep, exhausted. I am trying to fight them, but they are training me as surely as theyre training Pura." She clapped a hand to her mouth, moaning through her teeth. "Her name is Ryma. I have to remember her name, not the name theyve put on her. She is Ryma, and shes Yellow Ajah, and she has fought them as long and as hard as she could. It is no fault of hers that she hasnt the strength left to fight any longer. I wish I knew who the other sister is that Ryma mentioned. I wish I knew her name. Remember both of us, Min. Ryma, of the Yellow Ajah, and Egwene alVere. Not Egwene the damane; Egwene alVere of Emonds Field. Will you do that?" "Stop it!" Min snapped. "You stop it right this instant! If you get shipped off to Seanchan, Ill be right there with you. But I dont think you will. You know Ive read you, Egwene. I dont understand most of it - I almost never do - but I see things I am sure link you to Rand, and Perrin, and Mat, and - yes, even Galad, the Light help you for a fool. How can any of that happen if the Seanchan take you off across the ocean?" "Maybe theyre going to conquer the whole world, Min. If they conquer the world, theres no reason Rand and Galad and the rest could not end up in Seanchan." "You ninnyheaded goose!" "I am being practical," Egwene said sharply. "I dont intend to stop fighting, not as long as I can breathe, but I dont see any hope that Ill ever have the adam off me, either. Just as I dont see any hope that anyone is going to stop the Seanchan. Min, if this ship captain will take you, go with him. At least then one of us will be free." The door swung open, and Renna stepped in. Egwene jumped to her feet and bowed sharply, as did Min. The tiny room was crowded for bowing, but Seanchan insisted on protocol before comfort. "Your visiting day, is it?" Renna said. "I had forgotten. Well, there is training to be done even on visiting days." Egwene watched sharply as the suldam took down the bracelet, opened it, and fastened it again around her wrist. She could not see how it was done. If she could have probed with the One Power, she would have, but Renna would have known that immediately. As the bracelet closed around Rennas wrist a look came onto the suldams face that made Egwenes heart sink. "You have been channeling." Rennas voice was deceptively mild; there was a spark of anger in her eyes. "You know that is forbidden except when we are complete." Egwene wet her lips. "Perhaps I have been too lenient with you. Perhaps you believe that because you are valuable now, you will be allowed license. I think I made a mistake letting you keep your old name. I had a kitten called Tuli when I was a child. From now on, your name is Tuli. You will go now, Min. Your visiting day with Tuli is ended." Min hesitated only long enough for one anguished look at Egwene before leaving. Nothing Min could say or do would do anything except make matters worse, but Egwene could not help looking longingly at the door as it closed behind her friend. Renna took the chair, frowning at Egwene. "I must punish you severely for this. We will both be called to the Court of the Nine Moons-you for what you can do; I as your suldam and trainer-and I will not allow you to disgrace me in the eyes of the Empress. I will stop when you tell me how much you love being damane and how obedient you will be after this. And, Tuli. Make me believe every word." PROLOGUE