 Toggle navigationHomeLatest UpdateAdventureChristianFantasyHistoricalHorrorHumorousMysteryRomanceScience FictionThrillerWesternYoung AdultTop BooksPreySphereBlack RoseThe Great Train RobberyBlue DahliaCarnal InnocenceDance Upon the AirHigh NoonLawlessSacred SinsTributeFace the FireHolding the DreamA Man for AmandaAll the PossibilitiesNextThe Great Hunt 11 () 11 (Serpent and Wheel) Glimmers of the Pattern For once, Ingtar called a halt to the days march with the sun still golden above the horizon. The toughened Shienarans were feeling the effects of what they had seen in the village. Ingtar had not stopped so early before, and the campsite he chose had the look of a place that could be defended. It was a deep hollow, almost round, and big enough to hold all the men and horses comfortably. A sparse thicket of scrub oak and leatherleaf covered the outer slopes. The rim itself stood more than high enough to hide anyone in the campsite even without the trees. The height nearly passed for a hill, in that country. "All Im bloody saying," he heard Uno tell Ragan as they dismounted, "is that I bloody saw her, burn you. Just before we found the goatkissing Halfman. The same flaming woman as at the flaming ferry. She was there, and then she bloody wasnt. You say what you bloody want to, but you watch how you flaming say it, or Ill bloody skin you myself, and burn the goatkissing hide, you sheepgutted milkdrinker." Rand paused with one foot on the ground and the other still in the stirrup. The same woman? But there wasnt any woman at the ferry, just some curtains blowing in the wind. And she couldnt have gotten to that village ahead of us if there had been. The village ... He shied away from the thought. Even more than the Fade nailed to the door, he wanted to forget that room, and the flies, and the people who were there and not there. The Halfman had been real - everybody had seen that - but the room ... Maybe Im finally going mad. He wished Moiraine was there to talk to. Wishing for an Aes Sedai. You are a fool. Youre well out of that, now stay out. But am I out? What happened there? "Packhorses and supplies in the middle," Ingtar commanded as the lancers went about setting up camp. "Rub the horses down, then saddle them again in case we must move quickly. Every man sleeps by his mount, and therell be no fires tonight. Watch changes every two hours. Uno, I want scouts out, as far as they can ride and return before dark. I want to know what is out there." Hes feeling it, Rand thought. It isnt just some Darkfriends and a few Trollocs and maybe a Fade anymore. Just some Darkfriends and a few Trollocs, and maybe a Fade! Even a few days before there would not have been any "just" about it. Even in the Borderlands, even with the Blight less than a days ride, Darkfriends and Trollocs and Myrddraal had been bad enough for a nightmare, then. Before he had seen a Myrddraal nailed to a door. What in the Light could have done that? What not in the Light? Before he had walked into a room where a family had had their supper and their laughter cut off. I must have imagined it. I must have. Even in his own head he did not sound very convincing. He had not imagined the wind on the tower top, or the Amyrlin saying- "Rand?" He jumped as Ingtar spoke at his shoulder. "Are you going to stay all night with one foot in the stirrup?" Rand put his other foot on the ground. "Ingtar, what happened back at that village?" "Trollocs took them. The same as the people at the ferry. That is what happened. The Fade ..." Ingtar shrugged and stared down at a flat, canvaswrapped bundle, large and square, in his arms; he stared at it as if he saw hidden secrets he would rather not know. "The Trollocs took them for food. They do it in villages and farms near the Blight, too, sometimes, if a raid gets past the border towers in the night. Sometimes we get the people back, and sometimes not. Sometimes we get them back and almost wish we hadnt. Trollocs dont always kill before they start butchering. And Halfmen like to have their ... fun. Thats worse than what the Trollocs do." His voice was as steady as if he were talking of every day, and perhaps he was, for a Shienaran soldier. Rand took a deep breath to steady his stomach. "The Fade back there didnt have any fun, Ingtar. What could nail a Myrddraal to a door, alive?" Ingtar hesitated, shaking his head, then pushed the big bundle at Rand. "Here. Moiraine Sedai told me to give you this at the first camp south of the Erinin. I dont know what is in it, but she said you would need it. She said to tell you to take care of it; your life may depend on it." Rand took it reluctantly; his skin prickled at the touch of the canvas. There was something soft inside. Cloth, maybe. He held it gingerly. He doesnt want to think about the Myrddraal either. What happened in that room? He realized suddenly that for him, the Fade, or even that room, was preferable to thinking about what Moiraine might have sent him. "I was told to tell you at the same time that if anything happens to me, the lances will follow you." "Me!" Rand gasped, forgetting the bundle and everything else. Ingtar met his incredulous stare with a calm nod. "Thats crazy! Ive never led anything but a flock of sheep, Ingtar. They would not follow me anyway. Besides, Moiraine cant tell you who your second is. Its Uno." "Uno and I were called to Lord Agelmar the morning we left. Moiraine Sedai was there, but it was Lord Agelmar who told me. You are second, Rand." "But why, Ingtar? Why?" Moiraines hand was bright and clear in it, hers and the Amyrlins, pushing him along the path they had chosen, but he had to ask. The Shienaran looked as if he did not understand it either, but he was a soldier, used to odd commands in the endless war along the Blight. "I heard rumors from the womens apartments that you were really a ... " He spread gauntleted hands. "No matter. I know you deny it. Just as you deny the look of your own face. Moiraine Sedai says youre a shepherd, but I never saw a shepherd with a heronmark blade. No matter. Ill not claim I would have chosen you myself, but I think you have it in you to do what is needed. You will do your duty, if it comes to it." Rand wanted to say it was no duty of his, but instead he said, "Uno knows about this. Who else, Ingtar?" he lances. When we Shienarans ride, every man knows who is next in line if the man in command falls. A chain unbroken right down to the last man left, even if hes nothing but a horseholder. That way, you see, even if he is the last man, he is not just a straggler running and trying to stay alive. He has the command, and duty calls him to do what must be done. If I go to the last embrace of the mother, the duty is yours. You will find the Horn, and you will take it where it belongs. You will." There was a peculiar emphasis i The bundle in Rands arms seemed to weigh ten stone. Light, she could be a hundred leagues off, and she still reaches out and tugs the leash. This way, Rand. That way. Youre the Dragon Reborn, Rand. "I dont want the duty, Ingtar. I will not take it. Light, Im just a shepherd! Why wont anybody believe that?" "You will do your duty, Rand. When the man at the top of the chain fails, everything below him falls apart. Too much is falling apart. Too much already. Peace favor your sword, Rand alThor." "Ingtar, I - " But Ingtar was walking away, calling to see if Uno had the scouts out yet. Rand stared at the bundle in his arms and licked his lips. He was afraid he knew what was in it. He wanted to look, yet he wanted to throw it in a fire without opening it; he thought he might, if he could be sure it would burn without anyone seeing what was inside, if he could be sure what was inside would burn at all. But he could not look there, where other eyes than his might see. He glanced around the camp. The Shienarans were unloading the pack animals, some already handing out a cold supper of dried meat and flatbread. Mat and Perrin tended their horses, and Loial sat on a stone reading a book, with his longstemmed pipe clenched between his teeth and a wisp of smoke curling above his head. Gripping the bundle as if afraid he might drop it, Rand sneaked into the trees. He knelt in a small clearing sheltered by thickfoliaged branches and set the bundle on the ground. For a time he just stared at it. She wouldnt have. She couldnt. A small voice answered, Oh, yes, she could. She could and would. Finally he set about untying the small knots in the cords that bound it. Neat knots, tied with a precision that spoke loudly of Moiraines own hand; no servant had done this for her. She would not have dared let any servant see. When he had the last cord unfastened, he opened out what was folded inside with hands that felt numb, then stared at it, his mouth full of dust. It was all of one piece, neither woven, nor dyed, nor painted. A banner, white as snow, big enough to be seen the length of a field of battle. And across it marched a rippling figure like a serpent scaled in gold and crimson, but a serpent with four scaled legs, each tipped with five golden claws, a serpent with eyes like the sun and a golden lions mane. He had seen it once before, and Moiraine had told him what it was. The banner of Lews Therin Telamon, Lews Therin Kinslayer, in the War of the Shadow. The banner of the Dragon. "Look at that! Look what hes got, now!" Mat burst into the clearing. Perrin came after him more slowly. "First fancy coats," Mat snarled, "and now a banner! Well hear no end of lording it now, with - " Mat got close enough to see the banner clearly, and his jaw dropped. "Light!" He stumbled back a step. "Burn me!" He had been there, too, when Moiraine named the banner. So had Perrin. Anger boiled up in Rand, anger at Moiraine and the Amyrlin Seat, pushing him, pulling him. He snatched up the banner in both hands and shook it at Mat, words boiling out uncontrollably. "Thats right! The Dragons banner!" Mat took another step back. "Moiraine wants me to be a puppet on Tar Valon strings, a false Dragon for the Aes Sedai. Shes going to push it down my throat whatever I want. But-I-will -not-be-used!" Mat had backed up against a tree trunk. "A false Dragon?" He swallowed. "You? That ... thats crazy." Perrin had not retreated. He squatted down with his thick arms on his knees and studied Rand with those bright golden eyes. In the evening shadows they seemed to shine. "If the Aes Sedai want you for a false Dragon ..." He paused, frowning, thinking things through. Finally, he said quietly, "Rand, can you channel?" Mat gave a strangled gasp. Rand let the banner drop; he hesitated only a moment before nodding wearily. "I did not ask for it. I dont want it. But ... But I do not think I know how to stop it." The room with the flies came back unbidden to his mind. "I dont think theyll let me stop." "Burn me!" Mat breathed. "Blood and bloody ashes! Theyll kill us, you know. All of us. Perrin and me as well as you. If Ingtar and the others find out, they will cut our bloody throats for Darkfriends. Light, theyll probably think we were part of stealing the Horn, and killing those people in Fal Dara." "Shut up, Mat," Perrin said calmly. "Dont tell me to shut up. If Ingtar doesnt kill us, Rand will go mad and do it for him. Burn me! Burn me!" Mat slid down the tree to sit on the ground. "Why didnt they gentle you? If the Aes Sedai know, why didnt they gentle you? I never heard of them letting a man who can wield the Power just walk away." "They dont all know," Rand sighed. "The Amyrlin - " "The Amyrlin Seat! She knows? Light, no wonder she looked at me so strange." " - and Moiraine told me Im the Dragon Reborn, and then they said I could go wherever I wanted. Dont you see, Mat? They are trying to use me." "Doesnt change you being able to channel," Mat muttered. "If I were you, Id be halfway to the Aryth Ocean by now. And I would not stop until I found someplace where there were no Aes Sedai, and never likely to be any. And no people. I mean ... well ..." "Shut up, Mat," Perrin said. "Why are you here, Rand? The longer you stay around people, the more likely it is somebody will find out and send for Aes Sedai. Aes Sedai who wont tell you to go on about your business." He paused, scratching his head over that. "And Mats right about Ingtar. I dont doubt he would name you Darkfriend and kill you . Kill all of us, maybe. He seems to like you, but hed still do it, I think. A false Dragon? So would the others. Masema wouldnt need that much excuse, for you. So why arent you gone?" Rand shrugged. "I was going, but first the Amyrlin came, and then the Horn was stolen, and the dagger, and Moiraine said Mat was dying, and ... Light, I thought I could stay with you until we found the dagger, at least; I thought I could help with that. Maybe I was wrong." "You came because of the dagger?" Mat said quietly. He rubbed his nose and grimaced. "I never thought of that. I never thought you wanted to ... Aaaah! Are you feeling all right? I mean, you arent going mad already, are you?" Rand dug a pebble out of the groun "Ouch!" Mat rubbed his arm. "I was just asking. I mean, all those fancy clothes, and all that talk about being a lord. Well, that isnt exactly right in the head." "I was trying to get rid of you, fool! I was afraid Id go mad and hurt you." His eyes dropped to the banner, and his voice lowered. "I will, eventually, if I dont stop it. Light, I dont know how to stop it." "That is what Im afraid of," Mat said, standing. "No offense, Rand, but I think I will just sleep as far away from you as I can, if you dont mind. Thats if you are staying. I heard about a fellow who could channel, once. A merchants guard told me. Before the Red Ajah found him, he woke one morning, and his whole village was smashed flat. All the houses, all the people, everything but the bed he was sleeping in, like a mountain had rolled over them." Perrin said, "In that case, Mat, you should sleep cheek by jowl with him." "I may be a fool, but I intend to be a live fool." Mat hesitated, looking sideways at Rand. "Look, I know you came along to help me, and I am grateful. I really am. But you just are not the same anymore. You understand that, dont you?" He waited as if he expected an answer. None came. Finally he vanished into the trees, back toward the camp. "What about you?" Rand asked. Perrin shook his head, shaggy curls swinging. "I dont know, Rand. You are the same, but then again, you arent. A man channeling; my mother used to frighten me with that, when I was little. I just do not know." He stretched out his hand and touched a corner of the banner. "I think I would burn this, or bury it, if I were you. Then Id run so far, so fast, no Aes Sedai would ever find me. Mat was right about that." He stood up, squinting at the western sky, beginning to turn red with the sinking sun. "Time to get back to the camp. You think on what I said, Rand. Id run. But maybe you cant run. Think of that, too." His yellow eyes seemed to look inward, and he sounded tired. "Sometimes you cant run." Then he was gone, too. Rand knelt there, staring at the banner spread out on the ground. "Well, sometimes you can run," he muttered. "Only, maybe she gave me this to make me run. Maybe she has something waiting for me, if I run. I wont do what she wants. I wont. Ill bury it right here. But she said my life may depend on it, and Aes Sedai never lie so you can see it ... " Suddenly his shoulders shook with silent laughter. "Now Im talking to myself. Maybe I am going mad already." When he returned to the camp, he carried the banner wrapped in the canvas once more, tied with knots less neat than Moiraines had been. The light had begun to fail and the shadow of the rim covered half the hollow. The soldiers were settling in, all with their horses by their sides, lances propped to hand. Mat and Perrin were bedding down alongside their horses. Rand gave them a sad look, then fetched Red, standing where he had been left with his reins dangling, and went to the other side of the hollow, where Hurin had joined Loial. The Ogier had given over reading and was examining the halfburied stone on which he had been sitting, tracing something on the stone with the long stem of his pipe. Hurin stood and gave Rand something just short of a bow. "Hope you dont mind me making my bed here, Lord - uh - Rand. I was just listening to the Builder here." "There you are, Rand," Loial said. "You know, I think this stone was worked once. See, its weathered, but it looks as if it was a column of some kind. And there are markings, also. I cant quite make them out, but they look familiar, somehow." "Maybe youll be able to see them better in the morning," Rand said. He pulled the saddlebags from Red. "Ill be glad of your company, Hurin." Im glad of anybodys company who isnt afraid of me. How much longer can I have it, though? He shifted everything into one side of the saddlebags - spare shirts and breeches and woolen stockings, sewing kit, tinder box, tin plate and cup, a greenwood box with knife and fork and spoon, a packet of dried meat and flatbread for emergency rations, and all the other travelers necessaries - then stuffed the canvaswrapped banner into the empty pocket. It bulged, the straps barely reaching the buckles, but then, the other side bulged now, too. It would do. Loial and Hurin seemed to sense his mood, leaving him in silence while he stripped saddle and bridle from Red, rubbed the big bay down with tufts of grass torn from the ground, then resaddled him. Rand refused their offer of food; he did not think he could have stomached the best meal he had ever seen just then. All three of them made their beds there beside the stone, a simple matter of a blanket folded for a pillow and cloak to cover. The camp was silent now, but Rand lay awake past the fall of full dark. His mind darted back and forth. The banner. What is she trying to make me do? The village. What could kill a Fade like that? Worst of all, the house in the village. Did it really happen? Am I going mad already? Do I run, or do I stay? I have to stay. I have to help Mat find the dagger. An exhausted sleep finally came, and with sleep, unbidden, the void surrounded him, flickering with an uneasy glow that disturbed his dreams. Padan Fain stared northward out into the night, past the only fire in his camp, smiling a fixed smile that never touched his eyes. He still thought of himself as Padan Fain - Padan Fain was the core of him - but he had been changed, and he knew it. He knew many things, now, more than any of his old masters could suspect. He had been a Darkfriend long years before Baalzamon summoned him and set him on the track of the three young men from Emonds Field, distilling what he knew of them, distilling him, and feeding the essence back so that he could feel them, smell where they had been, follow wherever they ran. Especially the one. A part of him still cringed, remembering what Baalzamon had done to him, but it was a small part, hidden, suppressed. He was changed. Following the three had led him into Shadar Logoth. He had not wanted to go, but he had had to obey. Then. And in Shadar Logoth... Fain drew a deep breath and fingered the rubyhilted dagger at his belt. That had come from Shadar Logoth, too. It was the only weapon he carried, the only one he needed; it felt like a part of him. He was whole within himself, now. That was all that mattered. He cast a glance to either side of his fire. The twelve Darkfriends who were left, their oncefine clothes now rumpled and dirty, huddled in the darkness to one side, staring not at the fire, but at him. On the other squatted his Trollocs, twenty in number, the alltoohuman eyes in those animaltwisted mens faces following his every move It had been a struggle at first, waking each morning to find himself not completely whole, to find the Myrddraal back in command, raging and demanding they go north, to the Blight, to Shayol Ghul. But bit by bit those mornings of weakness grew shorter, until ... He remembered the feel of the hammer in his hand, driving the spikes in, and he smiled; this time it did touch his eyes, with the joy of sweet memory. Weeping from the dark caught his ear, and his smile faded. I should never have let the Trollocs take so many. An entire village to slow them down. If those few houses at the ferry had not been deserted, perhaps ... But Trollocs were greedy by nature, and in the euphoria of watching the Myrddraal die, he had not paid attention as he should. He glanced at the Trollocs. Any one of them was nearly twice as tall as he, strong enough to break him to flinders with one hand, yet they edged back, still crouching. "Kill them. All. You may feed, but then make a pile of everything that remains - for our friends to find. Put the heads on top. Neatly, now." He laughed, and cut it off short. "Go!" The Trollocs scrambled away, drawing scythelike swords and raising spiked axes. In moments shrieks and bellows rose from where the villagers were bound. Pleas for mercy and childrens screams were cut off by solid thuds and unpleasant squishing noises, like melons being broken. Fain turned his back on the cacophony to look at his Darkfriends. They were his, too, body and soul. Such souls as they had left. Every one of them was mired as deeply as he had been, before he found his way out. Every one with nowhere to go except to follow him. Their eyes clung to him, fearful, pleading. "You think they will grow hungry again before we find another village or a farm? They may. You think I will be letting them have some more of you? Well, perhaps one or two. There arent any more horses to spare." "The others were only commoners," one woman managed in an unsteady voice. Dirt streaked her face above a finely cut dress that marked her as a merchant, and wealthy. Smears stained the good gray cloth, and a long tear marred her skirt. "They were peasants. We have served - I have served - " Fain cut her off, his easy tone making his words all the harder. "What are you, to me? Less than peasants. Herd cattle for the Trollocs, perhaps? If you want to live, cattle, you must be useful." The womans face broke. She sobbed, and suddenly all the rest were babbling, telling him how useful they were, men and women who had had influence and position before they were called to fulfill their oaths at Fal Dara. They spilled out the names of important, powerful people whom they knew in the Borderlands, in Cairhien, and other lands. They babbled of the knowledge they alone had of this land or that, of political situations, alliances, intrigues, all the things they could tell him if he let them serve him. The noise of them blended with the sounds of the Trollocs slaughter and fit right in. Fain ignored all of it - he had no fear of turning his back on them, not since they had seen the Fade dealt with - and went to his prize. Kneeling, he ran his hands over the ornate, golden chest, feeling the power locked inside. He had to have a Trolloc carry it - he did not trust the humans enough to load it on a horse and packsaddle; some dreams of power might be strong enough to overcome even fear of him, but Trollocs never dreamed of anything except killing - and he had not yet puzzled out how to open it. But that would come. Everything would come. Everything. Unsheathing the dagger, he laid it atop the chest before settling himself down beside the fire. That blade was a better guard than Trolloc or human. They had all seen what happened when he used it, once; none would come within a span of that bared blade without his command, and then reluctantly. Lying there in his blankets, he stared northward. He could not feel alThor, now; the distance between them was too great. Or perhaps alThor was doing his vanishing trick. Sometimes, in the keep, the boy had suddenly vanished from Fains senses. He did not know how, but always alThor came back, just as suddenly as he had gone. He would come back this time, too. "This time you come to me, Rand alThor. Before, I followed you like a dog driven on the trail, but now you follow me." His laughter was a cackle that even he knew was mad, but he did not care. Madness was a part of him, too. "Come to me, alThor. The dance is not even begun yet. Well dance on Toman Head, and Ill be free of you. Ill see you dead at last." PROLOGUE 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 13 14 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50Back to Table of contentTOP AUTHORSTerry PratchettDarren ShanSamantha YoungGav ThorpePamela PalmerGene WolfeF. Paul WilsonAmanda MaxlynJodi Ellen MalpasJill ShalvisSusan HillSherrilyn KenyonMegan ShepherdColleen GleasonKylie ScottCourtney SummersElizabeth KostovaYanna LeeTobias S. BuckellJennifer EstepGeorgia CatesEmma ChaseJ.C. ReedC.J. EllissonBrent WeeksKendare BlakeSam SykesMeg CabotNicole Peeler Philip AthansLauren KateS.D. PerryMax BrooksFritz LeiberMaryJanice DavidsonJames S.A. CoreyR.K. LilleyMolly McAdamsRobert McCammonKatja MillayCopyright © novelfull thefreeonlinenovel.com All Rights Reserved.