 Toggle navigationHomeLatest UpdateAdventureChristianFantasyHistoricalHorrorHumorousMysteryRomanceScience FictionThrillerWesternYoung AdultTop BooksPreySphereBlack RoseThe Great Train RobberyBlue DahliaCarnal InnocenceDance Upon the AirHigh NoonLawlessSacred SinsTributeFace the FireHolding the DreamA Man for AmandaAll the PossibilitiesNextThe Great Hunt 9 () 9 (Flame of Tar Valon) Leavetakings The outer courtyard was in ordered turmoil when Rand finally reached it with his saddlebags and the bundle containing the harp and flute. The sun climbed toward midday. Men hurried around the horses, tugging at saddle girths and pack harness, voices raised. Others darted with lastminute additions to the packsaddles, or water for the men working, or dashed off to fetch something just remembered. But everyone seemed to know exactly what they were doing and where they were going. The guardwalks and archers balconies were crowded again, and excitement crackled in the morning air. Hooves clattered on the paving stones. One of the packhorses began kicking, and stablemen ran to calm it. The smell of horses hung thick. Rands cloak tried to flap in the breeze that rippled the swoopinghawk banners on the towers, but his bow, slung across his back, held it down. From outside the open gates came the sounds of the Amyrlins pikemen and archers forming up in the square. They had marched around from a side gate. One of the trumpeters tested his horn. Some of the Warders glanced at Rand as he walked across the courtyard; a few raised eyebrows when they saw the heronmark sword, but none spoke. Half wore the cloaks that were so queasymaking to look at. Mandarb, Lans stallion, was there, tall, and black, and fierceeyed, but the man himself was not, and none of the Aes Sedai, none of the women, were in evidence yet either. Moiraines white mare, Aldieb, stepped daintily beside the stallion. Rands bay stallion was with the other group on the far side of the courtyard, with Ingtar, and a bannerman holding Ingtars Gray Owl banner, and twenty other armored men with lances tipped with two feet of steel, all mounted already. The bars of their helmets covered their faces, and golden surcoats with the Black Hawk on the chest hid their plateandmail. Only Ingtars helmet had a crest, a crescent moon above his brow, points up. Rand recognized some of the men. Roughtongued Uno, with a long scar down his face and only one eye. Ragan and Masema. Others who had exchanged a word, or played a game of stones. Ragan waved to him, and Uno nodded, but Masema was not the only one who gave him a cold stare and turned away. Their packhorses stood placidly, tails swishing. The big bay danced as Rand tied his saddlebags and bundle behind the highcantled saddle. He put his foot in the stirrup and murmured, "Easy, Red," as he swung into the saddle, but he let the stallion frisk away some of his stablebound energy. To Rands surprise, Loial appeared from the direction of the stables, riding to join them. The Ogiers hairyfetlocked mount was as big and heavy as a prime Dhurran stallion. Beside it, all the other animals looked the size of Bela, but with Loial in the saddle, the horse seemed almost a pony. Loial carried no weapon that Rand could see; he had never heard of any Ogier using a weapon. Their stedding were protection enough. And Loial had his own priorities, his own ideas of what was needed for a journey. The pockets of his long coat had a telltale bulge, and his saddlebags showed the square imprints of books. opped his horse a little way off and looked at Rand, his tufted ears twitching uncertainly. "I didnt know you were coming," Rand said. "Id think you would have had enough of traveling with us. This time theres no telling how long it will be, or where we will end up." Loials ears lifted a little. "There was no telling when I first met you, either. Besides, what held then, holds now. I cant let the chance pass to see history actually weave itself around taveren. And to hel Mat and Perrin rode up behind Loial and paused. Mat looked a little tired around the eyes, but his face wore a bloom of health. "Mat," Rand said, "Im sorry for what I said. Perrin, I didnt mean it. I was being stupid." Mat only glanced at him, then shook his head and mouthed something to Perrin that Rand could not hear. Mat had only his bow and quiver, but Perrin also wore his axe at his belt, with its big halfmoon blade balanced by a thick spike. "Mat? Perrin? Really, I didnt - " They rode on toward Ingtar. "That is not a coat for traveling, Rand," Loial said. Rand glanced down at the golden thorns climbing his crimson sleeve and grimaced. Small wonder Mat and Perrin still think Im putting on airs. On returning to his room he had found everything already packed and sent on. All of the plain coats he had been given were on the packhorses, so the servants said; every coat left in the wardrobe was at least as ornate as the one he wore. His saddlebags held nothing in the way of clothes but a few shirts, some wool stockings, and a spare pair of breeches. At least he had removed the golden cord from his sleeve, though he had the red eagle pin in his pocket. Lan had meant it for a gift, after all. "Ill change when we stop tonight," he muttered. He took a deep breath. "Loial, I said things to you I should not have, and I hope youll forgive me. You have every right to hold them against me, but I hope you wont." Loial grinned, and his ears stood up. He moved his horse closer. "I say things I should not all the time. The Elders always said I spoke an hour before I thought." Suddenly Lan was at Rands stirrup, in his graygreen scaled armor that would make him all but disappear in forest or darkness. "I need to talk to you, sheepherder." He looked at Loial. "Alone, if you please, Builder." Loial nodded and moved his big horse away. "I dont know if I should listen to you," Rand told the Warder. "These fancy clothes, and all those things you told me, they didnt help much." "When you cant win a big victory, sheepherder, learn to settle for the small ones. If you made them think of you as something more than a farmboy wholl be easy to handle, then you won a small victory. Now be quiet and listen. Ive only time for one last lesson, the hardest. Sheathing the Sword." "Youve spent an hour every morning making me do nothing but draw this bloody sword and put it back in the scabbard. Standing, sitting, lying down. I think I can manage to get it back in the sheath without cutting myself." "I said listen, sheepherder," the Warder growled. "There will come a time when you must achieve a goal at all costs. It may come in attack or in defense. And the only way will be to allow the sword to be sheathed in your own body." "Thats crazy," Rand said. "Why would I ever-?" The Warder cut him off. "You will know when it comes, sheepherder, when the price is worth the gain, and there is no other choice left to you. That is called Sheathing the Sword. Remember it." The Amyrlin appeared, striding across the crowded courtyard with Leane and her staff, and Lord Agelmar at her shoulder. Even in a green velvet coat, the Lord of Fal Dara did not look out of place among so many armored men. There was still no sign of the other Aes Sedai. As they went by, Rand caught part of their conversation. "But, Mother," Agelmar was protesting, "youve had no time to rest from the journey here. Stay at least a few days more. I promise you a feast tonight such as you could hardly get in Tar Valon." The Amyrlin shook her head without breaking stride. "I cannot, Agelmar. You know I would if I could. I had never planned to remain long, and matters urgently require my presence in the White Tower. I should be there now." "Mother, it shames me that you come one day and leave the next. I swear to you, there will be no repetition of last night. I have tripled the guard on the city gates as well as the keep. I have tumblers in from the town, and a bard coming from Mos Shirare. Why, King Easar will be on his way from Fal Moran. I sent word as soon as ..." Their voices faded as they crossed the courtyard, swallowed up by the din of preparation. The Amyrlin never as much as glanced in Rands direction. When Rand looked down, the Warder was gone, and nowhere to be seen. Loial brought his horse back to Rands side. "That is a hard man to catch and hold, isnt he, Rand? Hes not here, then hes here, then hes gone, and you dont see him coming or going." Sheathing the Sword. Rand shivered. Warders must all be crazy. The Warder the Amyrlin was speaking to suddenly sprang into his saddle. He was at a dead gallop before he reached the widestanding gates. She stood watching him go, and her stance seemed to urge him to go faster. is he headed in such a hurry?" Rand wondered aloud. "I heard," Loial said, "that she was sending someone out today, all the way to Arad Doman. There is word of some sort of trouble on Almoth Plain, and the Amyrlin Seat wants to know exactly what. What I dont understand is, why now? From what I hear, the rumors of this trouble came from Tar Valon with the Aes Sedai." Rand felt cold. Egwenes father had a big map back at home, a map Rand had pored over more than once, dreaming before he found out what the dreams were like when they came true. It was old, that map, showing some lands and nations the merchants from outside said no longer existed, but Almoth Plain was marked, butting against Toman Head. We will meet again on Toman Head. It was all the way across the world he knew, on the Aryth Ocean. "It has nothing to do with us," he whispered. "Nothing to do with me." Loial appeared not to have heard. Rubbing the side of his nose with a finger like a sausage, the Ogier was still peering at the gate where the Warder had vanished. "If she wanted to know, why not send someone before she left Tar Valon? But you humans are always sudden and excitable, always jumping around and shouting." His ears stiffened with embarrassment. "I am sorry, Rand. You see what I mean about speaking before I think. Im rash and excitable sometimes myself, as you know." Rand laughed. It was a weak laugh, but it felt good to have something to laugh at. "Maybe if we lived as long as you Ogier, wed be more settled." Loial was ninety years old; by Ogier standards, not old enough by ten years to be outside the stedding alone. That he had gone anyway was proof, he maintained, of his rashness. If Loial was an excitable Ogier, Rand thought most of t "Perhaps so," Loial mused, "but you humans do so much with your lives. We do nothing but huddle in our stedding. Planting the groves, and even the building, were all done before the Long Exile ended." It was the groves Loial held dear, not the cities men remembered the Ogier for building. It was the groves, planted to remind Ogier Builders of the stedding, that Loial had left his home to see. "Since we found our way back to the stedding, we ..." His words trailed off as the Amyrlin approached. Ingtar and the other men shifted in their saddles, preparing to dismount and kneel, but she motioned them to stay as they were. Leane stood at her shoulder, and Agelmar a pace back. From his glum face, he appeared to have given up trying to convince her to remain longer. The Amyrlin looked at them one by one before she spoke. Her gaze stayed on Rand no longer than on any other. "Peace favor your sword, Lord Ingtar," she said finally. "Glory to the Builders, Loial Kiseran." "You honor us, Mother. May peace favor Tar Valon." Ingtar bowed in his saddle, and the other Shienarans did, too. "All honor to Tar Valon," Loial said, bowing. Only Rand, and his two friends on the other side of the party, stayed upright. He wondered what she had said to them. Leanes frown took in all three of them, and Agelmars eyes widened, but the Amyrlin took no notice. "You ride to find the Horn of Valere," she said, "and the hope of the world rides with you. The Horn cannot be left in the wrong hands, especially in Darkfriend hands. Those who come to answer its call, will come whoever blows it, and they are bound to the Horn, not to the Light." There was a stir among the listening men. Everyone believed that those heroes called back from the grave would fight for the Light. If they could fight for the Shadow, instead ... The Amyrlin went on, but Rand was no longer listening. The watcher was back. The hair stirred on the back of his neck. He peered up at the packed archers balconies overlooking the courtyard, at the rows of people jammed along the guardwalks atop the walls. Somewhere among them was the set of eyes that had followed him unseen. The gaze clung to him like dirty oil. It cant be a Fade, not here. Then who? Or what? He twisted in his saddle, pulling Red around, searching. The bay began to dance again. Suddenly something flashed across in front of Rands face. A man passing behind the Amyrlin cried out and fell, a blackfletched arrow jutting from his side. The Amyrlin stood calmly looking at a rent in her sleeve; blood slowly stained the gray silk. A woman screamed, and abruptly the courtyard rang with cries and shouts. The people on the walls milled furiously, and every man in the courtyard had his sword out. Even Rand, he was surprised to realize. Agelmar shook his blade at the sky. "Find him!" he roared. "Bring him to me!" His face went from red to white when he saw the blood on the Amyrlins sleeve. He fell to his knees, head bowed. "Forgive, Mother. I have failed your safety. I am ashamed." "Nonsense, Agelmar," the Amyrlin said. "Leane, stop fussing over me and see to that man. Ive cut myself worse than this more than once cleaning fish, and he needs help now. Agelmar, stand up. Stand up, Lord of Fal Dara. You have not failed me, and you have no reason for shame. Last year in the White Tower, with my own guards at every gate and Warders all around me, a man with a knife came within five steps of me. A Whitecloak, no doubt, though Ive no proof. Please stand up, or I will be shamed." As Agelmar slowly rose, she fingered her sliced sleeve. "A poor shot for a Whitecloak bowman, or even a Darkfriend." Her eyes flickered up to touch Rands. "If it was at me he aimed." Her gaze was gone before he could read anything on her face, but he suddenly wanted to dismount and hide. It wasnt aimed at her, and she knows it. Leane straightened from where she had been kneeling. Someone had laid a cloak over the face of the man who had taken the arrow. "He is dead, Mother." She sounded tired. "He was dead when he struck the ground. Even if I had been at his side ..." "You did what you could, Daughter. Death cannot be Healed." Agelmar moved closer. "Mother, if there are Whitecloak killers about, or Darkfriends, you must allow me to send men with you. As far as the river, at least. I could not live if harm came to you in Shienar. Please, return to the womens apartments. I will see them guarded with my life until you are ready to travel." "Be at ease," she told him. "This scratch will not delay me a moment. Yes, yes, I will gladly accept your men as far as the river, if you insist. But I will not let this delay Lord Ingtar a moment, either. Every heartbeat counts until the Horn is found again. Your leave, Lord Agelmar, to order your oathmen?" He bowed his head in assent. At that moment he would have given her Fal Dara had she asked. The Amyrlin turned back to Ingtar and the men gathered behind him. She did not look at Rand again. He was surprised to see her smile suddenly. "I wager Illian does not give its Great Hunt of the Horn so rousing a sendoff," she said. "But yours is the true Great Hunt. You are few, so you may travel quickly, yet enough to do what you must. I charge you, Lord Ingtar of House Shinowa, I charge all of you, find the Horn of Valere, and let nothing bar your way." Ingtar whipped his sword from his back and kissed the blade. "By my life and soul, by my House and honor, I swear it, Mother." ride." Ingtar swung his horse toward the gate. Rand dug his heels into Reds flanks and galloped after the column already disappearing through the gates. Unaware of what had occurred within, the Amyrlins pikemen and archers stood walling a path from the gates to the city proper, the Flame of Tar Valon on their chests. Her drummers and trumpeters waited near the gates, ready to fall in when she left. Behind the rows of armored men, people packed the square in front of the keep. Some cheered Ingtars banner, and others no doubt thought this was the start of the Amyrlin Seats departure. A swelling roar followed Rand across the square. He caught up with Ingtar where loweaved houses and shops stood to either side, and more people thickly lined the stonepaved street. Some of them cheered, too. Mat and Perrin had been riding at the head of the column with Ingtar and Loial, but the two of them fell back when Rand joined them. How am I ever going to apologize if they wont stay near me long enough for me to say anything? Burn me, he doesnt "Changu and Nidao are gone," Ingtar said abruptly. He sounded cold and angry, but shaken, too. "We counted every head in the keep, alive or dead, last night and again this morning. They are the only ones not accounted for." "Changu was on guard in the dungeon yesterday," Rand said slowly. "And Nidao. They had the second watch. They always stayed together, even if they had to trade or do extra duty for it. They were not on guard when it happened, but ... They fought at Tarwins Gap, a month gone, and saved Lord Agelmar when his horse went down with Trollocs all around him. Now this. Darkfriends." He drew a deep breath. "Everything is breaking apart." A man on horseback forced his way through the throng lining the street and joined in behind Ingtar. He was a townsman, by his clothes, lean, with a lined face and graying hair cut long. A bundle and waterbottles were lashed behind his saddle, and a shortbladed sword and a notched swordbreaker hung at his belt, along with a cudgel. Ingtar noticed Rands glances. "This is Hurin, our sniffer. There was no need to let the Aes Sedai know about him. Not that what he does is wrong, you understand. The King keeps a sniffer in Fal Moran, and theres another in Ankor Dail. Its just that Aes Sedai seldom like what they do not understand, and with him being a man ... Its nothing to do with the Power, of course. Aaaah! You tell him, Hurin." "Yes, Lord Ingtar," the man said. He bowed low to Rand from his saddle. "Honor to serve, my Lord." "Call me Rand." Rand stuck out his hand, and after a moment Hurin grinned and took it. "As you wish, my Lord Rand. Lord Ingtar and Lord Kajin dont mind a mans ways - and Lord Agelmar, of course - but they say in the town youre an outland prince from the south, and some outland lords are strict for every man in his place." "Im not a lord." At least Ill get away from that, now. "Just Rand." Hurin blinked. "As you wish, my Lor-ah -Rand. Im a sniffer, you see. Been one four years this Sunday. I never heard of such a thing before then, but I hear theres a few others like me. It started slow, catching bad smells where nobody else smelled anything, and it grew. Took a whole year before I realized what it was. I could smell violence, the killing and the hurting. Smell where it happened. Smell the trail of those who did it. Every trails different, so theres no chance of mixing them up. Lord Ingtar heard of it, and took me in his service, to serve the Kings justice." "You can smell violence?" Rand said. He could not help looking at the mans nose. It was an ordinary nose, not large, not small. "You mean you can really follow somebody who, say, killed another man? By smell?" "I can that, my Lor-ah-Rand. It fades with time, but the worse the violence, the longer it lasts. Aiie, I can smell a battlefield ten years old, though the trails of the men who were there are gone. Up near the Blight, the trails of the Trollocs almost never fade. Not much to a Trolloc but killing and hurting. A fight in a tavern, though, with maybe a broken arm ... that smells gone in hours." "I can see where you wouldnt want Aes Sedai to find out." "Ah, Lord Ingtar was right about the Aes Sedai, the Light illumine them&ndash;ah&ndash;Rand. There was one in Cairhien once - Brown Ajah, but I swear I thought she was Red before she let me go - she kept me a month trying to find out how I do it. She didnt like not knowing. She kept muttering, Is it old come again, or new? and staring at me until you would have thought I was using the One Power. Almost had me doubting myself. But I havent gone mad, and I dont do anything. I just smell it." Rand could not help remembering Moiraine. Old barriers weaken. There is something of dissolution and change about our time. Old things walk again, and new things are born. We may live to see the end of an Age. He shivered. "So well track those who took the Horn with your nose." Ingtar nodded. Hurin grinned proudly, and said, "We will that - ah - Rand. I followed a murderer to Cairhien, once, and another all the way to Maradon, to bring them back for the Kings justice." His grin faded, and he looked troubled. "This is the worst ever, though. Murder smells bad, and the trail of a murderer stinks with it, but this ..." His nose wrinkled. "There were men in it last night. Darkfriends, must be, but you cant tell a Darkfriend by smell. What Ill follow is the Trollocs, and the Halfmen. And something even worse." He trailed off, frowning and muttering to himself, but Rand could hear it. "Something even worse, the Light help me." They reached the city gates, and just beyond the walls Hurin lifted his face to the breeze. His nostrils flared, then he gave a snort of disgust. "That way, my Lord Ingtar." He pointed south. Ingtar looked surprised. "Not toward the Blight?" "No, Lord Ingtar. Faugh!" Hurin wiped his mouth on his sleeve. "I can almost taste them. South, they went." "She was right, then, the Amyrlin Seat," Ingtar said slowly. "A great and wise woman, who deserves better than me to serve her. Take the trail, Hurin." Rand turned and peered back through the gates, up the street to the keep. He hoped Egwene was all right . Nynaeve will look after her. Maybe its better this way, like a clean cut, too quick to hurt till after its done. He rode after Ingtar and the Gray Owl banner, south. The wind was making up, and cold against his back despite the sun. He thought he heard laughter in it, faint and mocking. The waxing moon lit the humid, nightdark streets of Illian, which still rang with celebration left over from daylight. In only a few more days, the Great Hunt of the Horn would be sent forth with pomp and ceremony that tradition claimed dated to the Age of Legends. The festivities for the Hunters had blended into the Feast of Teven, with its famed contests and prizes for gleemen. The greatest prize of all, as always, would go for the best telling of The Great Hunt of the Horn. gleemen entertained in the palaces and mansions of the city, where the great and mighty disported themselves, and the Hunters come from every nation to ride out and find, if not the Horn of Valere itself, at least immortality in song and story. They would have music and dancing, and fans and ices to dispel the years first real heat, but carnival filled the streets, too, in the moonbright muggy night. Every day was a carnival, until the Hunt People ran past Bayle Domon in masks and costumes bizarre and fanciful, many showing too much flesh. Shouting and singing they ran, a half dozen together, then scattered pairs giggling and clutching each other, then twenty in a raucous knot. Fireworks crackled in the sky, gold and silver bursts against the black. There were almost as many Illuminators in the city as there were gleemen. Domon spared little thought for fireworks, or for the Hunt. He was on his way to meet men he thought might be trying to kill him. He crossed the Bridge of Flowers, over one of the citys many canals, into the Perfumed Quarter, the port district of Illian. The canal smelled of too many chamber pots, with never a sign that there had ever been flowers near the bridge. The quarter smelled of hemp and pitch from the shipyards and docks, and sour harbor mud, all of it made fiercer by heated air that seemed nearly damp enough to drink. Domon breathed heavily; every time he returned from the northcountry he found himself surprised, for all he had been born there, at the early summer heat in Illian. In one hand he carried a stout cudgel, and the other hand rested on the hilt of the short sword he had often used in defending the decks of his river trader from brigands. No few footpads stalked these nights of revelry, where the pickings were rich and most were deep in wine. Yet he was a broad, muscular man, and none of those out for a catch of gold thought him rich enough, in his plaincut coat, to risk his size and his cudgel. The few who caught a clear glimpse of him, when he passed through light spilling from a window, edged back till he was well past. Dark hair that hung to his shoulders and a long beard that left his upper lip bare framed a round face, but that face had never been soft, and now it was set as grimly as if he meant to batter his way through a wall. He had men to meet, and he was not happy about it. More revelers ran past singing offkey, wine mangling their words. "The Horn of Valere," my aged grandmother! Domon thought glumly. It be my ship I do want to hang on to. And my life, Fortune prick me. He pushed into an inn, under a sign of a big, whitestriped badger dancing on its hind legs with a man carrying a silver shovel. Easing the Badger, it was called, though not even Nieda Sidoro, the innkeeper, knew what the name meant; there had always been an inn of the name in Illian. The common room, with sawdust on the floor and a musician softly strumming a twelvestringed bittern in one of the Sea Folks sad songs, was well lighted and quiet. Nieda allowed no commotion in her place, and her nephew, Bili, was big enough to carry a man out with either hand. Sailors, dockworkers, and warehousemen came to the Badger for a drink and maybe a little talk, for a game of stones or darts. The room was half full now; even men who liked quiet had been lured out by carnival. The talk was soft, but Domon caught mentions of the Hunt, and of the false Dragon the Murandians had taken, and of the one the Tarens were chasing through Haddon Mirk. There seemed to be some question whether it would be preferable to see the false Dragon die, or the Tairens. Domon grimaced. False Dragons! Fortune prick me, there be no place safe these days. But he had no real care for false Dragons, any more than for the Hunt. The stout proprietress, with her hair rolled at the back of her head, was wiping a mug, keeping a sharp eye on her establishment. She did not stop what she was doing, or even look at him, really, but, her left eyelid drooped, and her eyes slanted toward three men at a table in the corner. They were quiet even for the Badger, almost somber, and their bellshaped velvet caps and dark coats, embroidered across the chest in bars of silver and scarlet and gold, stood out among the plain dress of the other patrons. Domon sighed and took a table in a corner by himself. Cairhienin, this time. He took a mug of brown ale from a serving girl and drew a long swallow. When he lowered the mug, the three men in striped coats were standing beside his table. He made an unobtrusive gesture, to let Nieda know that he did not need Bili. "Captain Domon?" They were all three nondescript, but there was an air about the speaker that made Domon take him for their leader. They did not appear to be armed; despite their fine clothes, they looked as if they did not need to be. There were hard eyes in those so very ordinary faces. "Captain Bayle Domon, of the Spray?" Domon gave a short nod, and the three sat down without waiting for an invitation. The same man did the talking; the other two just watched, hardly blinking. Guards, Domon thought, for all their fine clothes. Who do he be to have a pair of guards to look over him? "Captain Domon, we have a personage who must be brought from Mayene to Illian." "Spray be a river craft," Domon cut him off. "Her draft be shallow, and she has no the keel for deep water." It was not exactly true, but close enough for landsmen. At least it be a change from Tear. They be getting smarter. The man seemed unperturbed at the interruption. "We had heard you were giving up the river trade." "Maybe I do, and maybe no. I have no decided." He had, though. He would not go back upriver, back to the Borderlands, for all the silk shipped in Tairen bottoms. Saldaean furs and ice peppers were not worth it, and it had nothing to do with the false Dragon he had heard of there. But he wondered again how anyone knew. He had not spoken of it to anyone, yet the others had known, too. "You can coast to Mayene easily enough. Surely, Captain, you would be willing to sail along the shoreline for a thousand gold marks." Despite himself, Domon goggled. It was four times the last offer, and that had been enough to make a mans jaw drop. "Who do you want me to fetch for that? The First of Mayene herself? Has Tear finally forced her all the way out, then?" "You need no names, Captain." The man set a large leather pouch on the table, and a sealed parchment. The pouch clinked heavily as he pushed them across the table. The big red wax circle holding the folded parchment shut bore the manyrayed Rising Sun of Cairhien. "Two hundred on account. For a thousand marks, I think you need no names. Give that, seal unbroken, to the Port Captain of Mayene, and he will give you three hundred more, and your passenger. I will hand over the remainder when your passenger is delivered here. So long as you have made no effort to discover that personages identity." Domon drew a deep breath. Fortune, it be worth the voyage if there be never another penny beyond what be in that sack. And a thousand was more money than he would clear in three years. He suspected that if he probed a little more, there would be other hints, just hints, that the voyage involved hidden dealings between Illians Council of Nine and the First of Mayene. The Firsts citystate was a province of Tear in all but name, and she would no doubt like Illians aid. And there were many in Illian who said it was time for another war, that Tear was taking more than a fair share of the trade on the Sea of Storms. A likely net to snare him, if he had not seen three He reached to take the pouch, and the man who had done all the talking caught his wrist. Domon glared at him, but he looked back undisturbed. "You must sail as soon as possible, Captain." "At first light," Domon growled, and the man nodded and released his hold. "At first light, then, Captain Domon. Remember, discretion keeps a man alive to spend his money." Domon watched the three of them leave, then stared sourly at the pouch and the parchment on the table in front of him. Someone wanted him to go east. Tear or Mayene, it did not matter so long as he went east. He thought he knew who wanted it. And then again, I have no a clue to them. Who could know who was a Darkfriend? But he knew that Darkfriends had been after him since before he left Marabon to come back downriver. Darkfriends and Trollocs. Of that, he was sure. The real question, the one he had not even a glimmer of an answer for, was why? "Trouble, Bayle?" Nieda asked. "You do look as if you had seen a Trolloc." She giggled, an improbable sound from a woman her size. Like most people who had never been to the Borderlands, Nieda did not believe in Trollocs. He had tried telling her the truth of it; she enjoyed his stories, and thought they were all lies. She did not believe in snow, either. "No trouble, Nieda." He untied the pouch, dug a coin out without looking, and tossed it to her. "Drinks for everyone till that do run out, then Ill give you another." Nieda looked at the coin in surprise. "A Tar Valon mark! Do you be trading with the witches now, Bayle?" "No," he said hoarsely. "That I do not!" She bit the coin, then quickly snugged it away behind her broad belt. "Well, it be gold for that. And I suspect the witches be no so bad as some make them out, anyway. Id no say so much to many men. I know a money changer who do handle such. Youll no have to give me another, with as few as be here tonight. More ale for you, Bayle?" He nodded numbly, though his mug was still almost full, and she trundled off. She was a friend, and would not speak of what she had seen. He sat staring at the leather pouch. Another mug was brought before he could make himself open it enough to look at the coins inside. He stirred them with a callused finger. Gold marks glittered up at him in the lamplight, every one of them bearing the damning Flame of Tar Valon. Hurriedly he tied the bag. Dangerous coins. One or two might pass, but so many would say to most people exactly what Nieda thought. There were Children of the Light in the city, and although there was no law in Illian against dealing with Aes Sedai, he would never make it to a magistrate if the Whitecloaks heard of this. These men had made sure he would not simply take the gold and stay in Illian. While he was sitting there worrying, Yarin Maeldan, his brooding, storklike second on Spray, came into the Badger with his brows pulled down to his long nose and stood over the captains table. "Carns dead, Captain." Domon stared at him, frowning. Three others of his men had already been killed, one each time he refused a commission that would take him east. The magistrates had done nothing; the streets were dangerous at night, they said, and sailors a rough and quarrelsome lot. Magistrates seldom troubled themselves with what happened in the Perfumed Quarter, as long as no respectable citizens were injured. "But this time I did accept them," he muttered. "Tisnt all, Captain," Yarin said. "They worked Carn with knives, like they wanted him to tell them something. And some more men tried to sneak aboard Spray not an hour gone. The dock watch ran them off. Third time in ten days, and I never knew wharf rats to be so persistent. They like to let an alarm die down before they try again. And somebody tossed my room at the Silver Dolphin last night. Took some silver, so Id think it was thieves, but they left that belt buckle of mine, the one set with garnets and moonstones, lying right out in plain sight. Whats going on, Captain? The men are afraid, and Im a little nervous myself." Domon reared to his feet. "Roust the crew, Yarin. Find them and tell them Spray sails as soon as there do be men enough aboard to handle her." Stuffing the parchment into his coat pocket, he snatched up the bag of gold and pushed his second out the door ahead of him. "Roust them, Yarin, for Ill leave any man who no makes it, standing on the quay as he is." Domon gave Yarin a shove to start him running, then stalked off toward the docks. Even footpads who heard the clinking of the pouch he carried steered clear of him, for he walked now like a man going to do murder. There were already crewmen scrambling aboard Spray when he arrived, and more running barefoot down the stone quay. They did not know what he feared was pursuing him, or even that anything did pursue him, but they knew he made good profits, and after the Illianer way, he gave shares to the crew. Spray was eighty feet long, with two masts, and broad in the beam, with room for deck cargo as well as in the holds. Despite what Domon had told the Cairhienin - if they had been Cairhienin - he thought she could stand the open water. The Sea of Storms was quieter in the summer. "Shell have to," he muttered, and strode below to his cabin. He tossed the sack of gold on his bed, built neatly against the hull like everything else in the stern cabin, and dug out the parchment. Lighting a lantern, hanging in its swivel from the overhead, he studied the sealed document, turning it as if he could read what was inside without opening it. A rap on the door made him frown. "Come." Yarin stuck his head in. "Theyre all aboard but three I couldnt find, Captain. But Ive spread the word through every tavern, hell, and crib in the quarter. Theyll be aboard before its light enough to start upriver." do sail now. To sea." Domon cut off Yarins protests about light and tides, and Spray not being built for the open sea. "Now! Spray can clear the bars at dead low tide. Youve no forgotten how to sail by the stars, have you? Take her out, Yarin. Take her out now, and come back to me when we be beyond the breakwater." His second hesitated - Domon never let a tricky bit of sailing pass without him on deck giving orders, and taking Spray out in the night would be all of that, shallow draft or no - then nodded and vanished. In moments the sounds of Yarin shouting orders and bare feet thumping on the decks overhead penetrated Domons cabin. He ignored them, even when the ship l Finally he lifted the mantle of the lantern and stuck a knife into the flame. Smoke curled up as oil burned off the blade, but before the metal could turn red, he pushed charts out of the way and pressed the parchment flat on his desk, working the hot steel slowly under the sealing wax. The top fold lifted. It was a simple document, without preamble or salutation, and it made sweat break out on his forehead. The bearer of this is a Darkfriend wanted in Cairhien for murders and other foul crimes, least among them, theft from Our Person. We call upon you to seize this man and all things found in his keeping, to the smallest. Our representative will come to carry away what he has stolen from Us. Let all he possesses, save what We claim, go to you at reward for taking him. Let the vile miscreant himself be hanged immediately, that his Shadowspawned villainy no longer taint the Light. Sealed by Our Hand Galldrian su Riatin Rie King of Cairhien Defender of the Dragonwall In thin red wax below the signature were impressed the Rising Sun seal of Cairhien and the Five Stars of House Riatin. "Defender of the Dragonwall, my aged grandmother," Domon croaked. "Fine right the man do have to call himself that any longer." He examined the seals and signature minutely, holding the document close to the lamp, with his nose all but brushing the parchment, but he could find no flaw in the one, and for the other, he had no idea what Galldrians hand looked like. If it was not the King himself who had signed it, he suspected that whoever had had made a good imitation of Galldrians scrawl. In any case, it made no real difference. In Tear, the letter would be instantly damning in the hands of an Illianer. Or in Mayene, with Tairen influence so strong. There was no war now, and men from either port came and went freely, but there was as little love for Illianers in Tear as the other way round. Especially with an excuse like this. For a moment he thought of putting the parchment into the lanterns flame - it was a dangerous thing to have, in Tear or Illian or anywhere he could imagine - but finally he tucked it carefully into a secret cubbyhole behind his desk, concealed by a panel only he knew how to open. "My possessions, eh?" He collected old things, as much as he could living on shipboard. What he could not buy, because it was too expensive or too large, he collected by seeing and remembering. All those remnants of times gone, those wonders scattered around the world that had first pulled him aboard a ship as boy. He had added four to his collection in Maradon this last trip, and it had been then that the Darkfriend pursuit began. And Trollocs, too, for a time. He had heard that Whitebridge had been burned to the ground right after he sailed from there, and there had been rumors of Myrddraal as well as Trollocs. It was that, all of it together, that had first convinced him he was not imagining things, that had had him on guard when that first odd commission was offered, too much money for a simple voyage to Tear, and a thin tale for a reason. Digging into his chest, he set out on the desk what he had bought in Maradon. A lightstick, left from the Age of Legends, or so it was said. Certainly no one knew the making of them any longer. Expensive, that, and rarer than an honest magistrate. It looked like a plain glass rod, thicker than his thumb and not quite as long as his forearm, but when held in the hand it glowed as brightly as a lantern. Lightsticks shattered like glass, too; he had nearly lost Spray in the fire caused by the first he had owned. A small, agedark ivory carving of a man holding a sword. The fellow who sold it claimed if you held it long enough you started to feel warm. Domon never had, and neither had any of the crew he let hold it, but it was old, and that was enough for Domon. The skull of a cat as big as a lion, and so old it was turned to stone. But no lion had ever had fangs, almost tusks, a foot long. And a thick disk the size of a mans hand, half white and half black, a sinuous line separating the colors. The shopkeeper in Maradon had said it was from the Age of Legends, thinking he lied, but Domon had haggled only a little before paying, because he recognized what the shopkeeper did not: the ancient symbol of Aes Sedai from before the Breaking of the World. Not a safe thing to have, precisely, but neither a thing to be passed up by a man with a fascination for the old. And it was heartstone. The shopkeeper had never dared add that to what he thought were lies. No riverfront shopkeeper in Maradon could afford even one piece of cuendillar. The disk felt hard and smooth in his hand, and not at all valuable except for its age, but he was afraid it was what his pursuers were after. Lightsticks, and ivory carvings, and even bones turned to stone, he had seen other times, other places. Yet even knowing what they wanted - if he did know - he still had no idea why, and he could no longer be sure who his pursuers were. Tar Valon marks, and an ancient Aes Sedai symbol. He scrubbed a hand across his lips; the taste of fear lay bitter on his tongue. A knock at the door. He set the disk down and pulled an unrolled chart over what lay on his desk. "Come." Yarin entered. "Were beyond the breakwater, Captain." Domon felt a flash of surprise, then anger with himself. He should never have gotten so engrossed that he failed to feel Spray lifting on the swells. "Make west, Yarin. See to it." "Ebou Dar, Captain?" No far enough. No by five hundred leagues. "Well put in long enough for me to get charts and top the water barrels, then we do sail west." "West, Captain? Tremalking? The Sea Folk are tight with any traders but their own." "The Aryth Ocean, Yarin. Plenty of trade between Tarabon and Arad Doman, and hardly a Taraboner or Domani bottom to worry about. They do no like the sea, I have heard. And all those small towns on Toman Head, every one holding itself free of any nation at all. We can even pick up Saldaean furs and ice peppers brought down to Bandar Eban." his head slowly. He always looked at the dark side, but he was a good sailor. "Furs and peppersll cost more there than running upriver for them, Captain. And I hear theres some kind of war. If Tarabon and Arad Doman are fighting, there may be no trade. I doubt well make much off the towns on Toman Head alone, even if they are safe. Falmes the largest, and it is not big." "The Taraboners and the Domani have always squabbled over Almoth Plain and Toman Head. Even if it has come to blows this time, a careful man can always find trade. West, Yarin." When Yarin had gone topside, Domon quickly added the blackandwhite disk to the cubbyhole, and stowed the rest back in the bottom of his chest. Darkfriends or Aes Sedai, Ill no run the way they want me. Fort Feeling safe for the first time in months, Domon went on deck as Spray heeled to catch the wind and put her bow west into the nightdark sea. PROLOGUE