 2 () 2 Strangers When Rand and Mat carried the first barrels through the common room, Master alVere was already filling a pair of mugs with his best brown ale, his own make, from one of the casks cracked against one wall. Scratch, the inns yellow cat, crouched atop it with his eyes closed and his tail wrapped around his feet. Tam stood in front of the big fireplace of river rock, thumbing a longstemmed pipe full of tabac from a polished canister the innkeeper always kept on the plain stone mantel. The fireplace stretched half the length of the big, square room, with a lintel as high as a mans shoulder, and the crackling blaze on the hearth vanquished the chill outside. At that time of the busy day before Festival, Rand expected to find the common room empty except for Bran and his father and the cat, but four more members of the Village Council, including Cenn, sat in highbacked chairs in front of the fire, mugs in hand and bluegray pipesmoke wreathing their heads. For once none of the stones boards were in use, and all of Brans books stood idle on the shelf opposite the fireplace. The men did not even talk, peering silently into their ale or tapping pipestems against their teeth in impatience, as they waited for Tam and Bran to join them. Worry was not uncommon for the Village Council these days, not in Emonds Field, and likely not in Watch Hill, or Deven Ride. Or even Taren Ferry, though who knew what Taren Ferry folk really thought about anything? Only two of the men before the fire, Haral Luhhan, the blacksmith, and Jon Thane, the miller, so much as glanced at the boys as they entered. Master Luhhan, though, made it more than a glance. The blacksmiths arms were as big as most mens legs, roped with heavy muscle, and he still wore his long leather apron as if he had hurried to the meeting straight from the forge. His frown took them both in, then he straightened around in his chair deliberately, turning his attention back to an overstudious tamping of his pipe with a thick thumb. Curious, Rand slowed, then barely bit back a yelp as Mat kicked his ankle. His friend nodded insistently toward the doorway at the back of the common room and hurried on without waiting. Limping slightly, Rand followed less quickly. "What was that about?" he demanded as soon as he was in the hall that to the kitchen. "You almost broke my - " "Its old Luhhan," Mat said, peering past Rands shoulder into the common room. "I think he suspects I was the one who - " He cut off abruptly as Mistress alVere bustled out of the kitchen, the aroma of freshbaked bread wafting ahead of her. The tray in her hands carried some of the crusty loaves for which she was famous around Emonds Field, as well as plates of pickles and cheese. The food reminded Rand abruptly that he had eaten only an end of bread before leaving the farm that morning. His stomach gave an embarrassing rumble. A slender woman, with her thick braid of graying hair pulled over one shoulder, Mistress alVere smiled in a motherly fashion that took in both of them. "There is more of this in the kitchen, if you two are hungry, and I never knew boys your age who werent. Or any other age, for that matter. If you prefer, Im baking honeycakes this morning." She was one of the few married women in the area who never tried to play matchmaker with Tam. Toward Rand her motherliness extended to warm smiles and a quick snack whenever he came by the inn, but she did as much for every young man in the area. If she occasionally looked at him as if she wanted to do more, at least she took it no further than looks, for that he was deeply grateful.Without waiting for a reply she swept on into the common room. Immediately there was the sound of chairs scraping on the floor as the men got to their feet, and exclaimings over the smell of the bread. She was easily the best cook in Emonds Field, and not a man for miles around but eagerly leaped at a chance to put his feet under her table. "Honeycakes," Mat said, smacking his lips. "After," Rand told him firmly, "or well never get done." A lamp hung over the cellar stairs, just beside the kitchen door, and another made a bright pool in the stonewalled room beneath the inn, banishing all but a little dimness in the furthest corners. Wooden racks along the walls and across the floor held casks of brandy and cider, and larger barrels of ale and wine, some with taps driven in. Many of the wine barrels were marked with chalk in Bran alVeres hand, giving the year they had been bought, what peddler had brought them, and in which city they had been made, but all of the ale and brandy was the make of Two Rivers farmers or of Bran himself. Peddlers, and even merchants, sometimes brought brandy or ale from outside, but it was never as good and cost the earth, besides, and nobody ever drank it more than once. "Now," Rand said, as they set their casks in the racks, "what did you do that you have to avoid Master Luhhan?" Mat shrugged. "Nothing, really. I told Adan alCaar and some of his snotnosed friends-Ewin Finngar and Dag Coplin - that some farmers had seen ghost hounds, breathing fire and running through the woods. They ate it up like clotted cream." "And Master Luhhan is mad at you for that?" Rand said doubtfully. "Not exactly." Mat paused, then shook his head. "You see, I covered two of his dogs with flour, so they were all white. Then I let them loose near Dags house. How was I to know theyd run straight home? It really isnt my fault. If Mistress Luhhan hadnt left the door open they couldnt have gotten inside. It isnt like I intended to get flour all over her house." He gave a bark of laughter. "I hear she chased old Luhhan and the dogs, all three, out of the house with a broom." Rand winced and laughed at the same time. "If I were you, Id worry more about Alsbet Luhhan than about the blacksmith. Shes almost as strong, and her temper is a lot worse. No matter, though. If you walk fast, maybe he wont notice you." Mats expression said he did not think Rand was funny. When they went back through the common room, though, there was no need for Mat to hurry. The six men had their chairs in a tight knot before the fireplace. With his back to the fire, Tam was speaking in a low voice, and the others were leaning forward to listen, so intent on his words they would likely not have noticed if a flock of sheep had been driven through. Rand wanted to move closer, to hear what they were talking about, but Mat plucked at his sleeve and gave him an agonized look. With a sigh he followed Mat out to the cart. On their return to the hallway they found a tray by the top of the steps, and hot honeycakes filling the hall with their sweet aroma. There were two mugs, as well, and a pitcher of steaming mulled cider. Despite his own admonition about waiting until later Rand found himself making the last two trips between cart and cellar while trying to juggle a cask and a piping honeycake. Setting his final cask in the racks, he wiped crumbs from his mouth while Mat was unburdening himself, then said, "Now for the glee -" ed on the stairs, and Ewin Finngar half fell into the cellar in his haste, his pudgy face shining with eagerness to impart his news. "There are strangers in the village." He caught his breath and gave Mat a wry look. "I havent seen any ghost hounds, but I hear somebody floured Master Luhhans dogs. I hear Mistress Luhhan has ideas who to look for, too." The years separating Rand and Mat from Ewin, only fourteen, were usually more than enough for them to give short shrift to anything he had to say. This time they exchanged one startled glance, then both were talking at once. "In the village?" Rand asked. "Not in the woods?" Right on top of him Mat added, "Was his cloak black? Could you see his face?" Ewin looked uncertainly from one of them to the other, then spoke quickly when Mat took a threatening step. "Of course I could see his face. And his cloak is green. Or maybe gray. It changes. It seems to fade into wherever hes standing. Sometimes you dont see him even when you look right at him, not unless he moves. And hers is blue, like the sky, and ten times fancier than any feastday clothes I ever saw. Shes ten times prettier than anybody I ever saw, too. Shes a highborn lady, like in the stories. She must be." "Her?" Rand said. "Who are you talking about?" He stared at Mat, who had put both hands on top of his head and squeezed his eyes shut. "Theyre the ones I meant to tell you about," Mat muttered, "before you got me off onto -" He cut off, opening his eyes for a sharp glance at Ewin. "They arrived last evening," Mat went on after a moment, "and took rooms here at the inn. I saw them ride in. Their horses, Rand. I never saw horses so tall, or so sleek. They look like they could run forever. I think he works for her." "In service," Ewin broke in. "They call it being in service, in the stories." Mat continued as if Ewin had not spoken. "Anyway, he defers to her, does what she says. Only he isnt like a hired man. A soldier, maybe. The way he wears his sword, its part of him, like his hand or his foot. He makes the merchants guards look like cur dogs. And her, Rand. I never even imagined anyone like her. Shes out of a gleemans story. Shes like&hellip; like... " He paused to give Ewin a sour look. " ... like a highborn lady,&rdquo "But who are they?" Rand asked. Except for merchants, once a year to buy tabac and wool, and the peddlers, outsiders never came into the Two Rivers, or as good as never. Maybe at Taren Ferry, but not this far south. Most of the merchants and peddlers had been coming for years, too, so they did not really count as strangers. Just outsiders. It was a good five years since the last time a real stranger appeared in Emonds Field, and he had been trying to hide from some sort of trouble up in Baerlon that nobody in the village understood. He had not stayed long. "What do they want?" Mat exclaimed. "I dont care what they want. Strangers, Rand, and strangers like you never even dreamed of. Think of it!" Rand opened his mouth, then closed it without speaking. The black cloaked rider had him as nervous as a cat in a dog run. It just seemed like an awful coincidence, three strangers around the village at the same time. Three if this fellows cloak that changed colors never changed to black. "Her name is Moiraine," Ewin said into the momentary silence. "I heard him say it. Moiraine, he called her. The Lady Moiraine. His name is Lan. The Wisdom may not like her, but I do. " "What makes you think Nynaeve dislikes her?" Rand said. "She asked the Wisdom for directions this morning," Ewin said, "and called her child." Rand and Mat both whistled softly through their teeth, and Ewin tripped over his tongue in his haste to explain. "The Lady Moiraine didnt know she was the Wisdom. She apologized when she found out. She did. And asked some questions about herbs, and about who is who around Emonds Field, just as respectfully as any woman in the village-more so than some. Shes always asking questions, about how old people are, and how long theyve lived where they live, and ... oh, I dont know what all. Anyway, Nynaeve answered like shed bitten a green sweetberry. Then, when the Lady Moiraine walked away, Nynaeve stared after her like, like ... well, it wasnt friendly, I can tell you that." "Is that all?" Rand said. "You know Nynaeves temper. When Cenn Buie called her a child last year, she thumped him on the head with her stick, and hes on the Village Council, and old enough to be her grandfather, besides. She flares up at anything, and never stays angry past turning around. " "Thats too long for me," Ewin muttered. "I dont care who Nynaeve thumps", Mat chortled, "so long as it isnt me. This is going to be the best Bel Tine ever. A gleeman, a lady - who could ask for more? Who needs fireworks?" "A gleeman?" Ewin said, his voice rising sharply. "Come on, Rand," Mat went on, ignoring the younger boy. "Were done here. You have to see this fellow." He bounded up the stairs, with Ewin scrambling behind him calling, "Is there really a gleeman, Mat? This isnt like the ghost hounds, is it? Or the frogs?" Rand paused long enough to turn down the lamp, then hurried after them. In the common room Rowan Hurn and Samel Crawe had joined the others in front of the fire, so that the entire Village Council was there. Bran alVere spoke now, his normally bluff voice pitched so low that only a rumbling murmur traveled beyond the closegathered chairs. The Mayor emphasized his words by capping a thick forefinger into the palm of his hand, and eyed each man in turn. They all nodded in agreement with whatever he was saying, though Cenn more reluctantly than the rest. The way the men all but huddled together spoke more plainly than a painted sign. Whatever they were talking about, it was for the Village Council alone, at least for now. They would not appreciate Rand trying to listen in. Reluctantly he pulled himself away. There was still the gleeman. And these strangers. Outside, Bela and the cart were gone, taken away by Hu or Tad, the stablemen. Mat and Ewin stood glaring at one another a few paces from the front door of the inn, their cloaks whipping in the wind. "For the last time," Mat barked, "I am not playing a trick on you . There is a gleeman. Now go away. Rand, will you tell this woolhead I am telling the truth so hell leave me alone?" Pulling his cloak together, Rand stepped forward to support Mat, but words died as the hairs stirred on the back of his neck. He was being watched again. It was far from the feeling the hooded rider had given him, but neither was it pleasant, especially so soon after that encounter. A quick look about the Green showed him only what he had seen before-children playing, people preparing for Festival, and no one more than glancing in his direction. The Spring Pole stood alone, now, waiting. Bustle and childish shouts filled the side streets. All was as it should be. Except that he was being watched. Then something led him to turn around, to raise his eyes. On the edge of the inns tile roof perched a large raven, swaying a little in the gusting wind from the mountains. Its head was cocked to one side, and one beady, black eye was focused ... on him, he thought. He swallowed, and suddenly anger flickered in him, hot and sharp. "Filthy carrion eater," he muttered. "I am tired of being stared at," Mat growled, and Rand realized his friend had stepped up beside him and was frowning at the raven, too. ed a glance, then as one their hands darted for rocks. The two stones flew true ... and the raven stepped aside; the stones whistled through the space where it had been. Fluffing its wings once, it cocked its head again, fixing them with a dead black eye, unafraid, giving no sign that anything had happened. Rand stared at the bird in consternation. "Did you ever see a raven do that?" he asked quietly. Mat shook his head without looking away from the raven. "Never. Nor any other bird, either." "A vile bird," came a womans voice from behind them, melodious despite echoes of distaste, "to be mistrusted in the best of times." With a shrill cry the raven launched itself into the air so violently that two black feathers drifted down from the roofs edge. Startled, Rand and Mat twisted to follow the birds swift flight, over the Green and toward the cloudtipped Mountains of Mist, tall beyond the Westwood, until it dwindled to a speck in the west, then vanished from view. Rands gaze fell to the woman who had spoken. She, too, had been watching the flight of the raven, but now she turned back, and her eyes met his. He could only stare. This had to be the Lady Moiraine, and she was everything that Mat and Ewin had said, everything and more. When he had heard she called Nynaeve child, he had pictured her as old, but she was not. At least, he could not put any age to her at all. At first he thought she was as young as Nynaeve, but the longer he looked the more he thought she was older than that. There was a maturity about her large, dark eyes, a hint of knowing that no one could have gotten young. For an instant he thought those eyes were deep pools about to swallow him up. It was plain why Mat and Ewin named her a lady from a gleemans tale, too. She held herself with a grace and air of command that made him feel awkward and stumblefooted. She was barely tall enough to come up to his chest, but her presence was such that her height seemed the proper one, and he felt ungainly in his tallness. Altogether she was like no one he had ever seen before. The wide hood of her cloak framed her face and dark hair, hanging in soft ringlets. He had never seen a grown woman with her hair unbraided; every girl in the Two Rivers waited eagerly for the Womens Circle of her village to say she was old enough to wear a braid. Her clothes were just as strange. Her cloak was skyblue velvet, with thick silver embroidery, leaves and vines and flowers, all along the edges. Her dress gleamed faintly as she moved, a darker blue than the cloak, and slashed with cream. A necklace of heavy gold links hung around her neck, while another gold chain, delicate and fastened in her hair, supported a small, sparkling blue stone in the middle of her forehead. A wide belt of woven gold encircled her waist, and on the second finger of her left hand was a gold ring in the shape of a serpent biting its own tail. He had certainly never seen a ring like that, though he recognized the Great Serpent, an even older symbol for eternity than the Wheel of Time. Fancier than any feastday clothes, Ewin had said, and he was right. No one ever dressed like that in the Two Rivers. Not ever. "Good morning, Mistress ... ah ... Lady Moiraine," Rand said. His face grew hot at his tongues fumbling. "Good morning, Lady Moiraine," Mat echoed somewhat more smoothly, but only a little. She smiled, and Rand found himself wondering if there was anything he might do for her, something that would give him an excuse to stay near her. He knew she was smiling at all of them, but it seemed meant for him alone. It really was just like seeing a gleemans tale come to life. Mat had a foolish grin on his face. "You know my name," she said, sounding delighted. As if her presence, however brief, would not be the talk of the village for a year! "But you must call me Moiraine, not lady. And what are your names?" Ewin leaped forward before either of the others could speak. "My name is Ewin Finngar, my lady. I told them your name; thats how they know. I heard Lan say it, but I wasnt eavesdropping. No one like you has ever come to Emonds Field, before. Theres a gleeman in the village for Bel Tine, too. And tonight is Winternight. Will you come to my house? My moth "I shall have to see," she replied, putting a hand on Ewins shoulder. Her eyes twinkled with amusement, though she gave no other sign of it. "I do not know how well I could compete against a gleeman, Ewin. But you must all call me Moiraine." She looked expectantly at Rand and Mat. "Im Matrim Cauthon, La ... ah ... Moiraine," Mat said. He made a stiff, jerking bow, then went red in the face as he straightened. Rand had been wondering if he should do something of the sort, the way men did in stories, but with Mats example, he merely spoke his name. At least he did not stumble over his own tongue this time. Moiraine looked from him to Mat and back again. Rand thought her smile, a bare curve of the corners of her mouth, was now the sort Egwene wore when she had a secret. "I may have some small tasks to be done from time to time while I am in Emonds Field," she said. "Perhaps you would be willing to assist me?" She laughed as their assents tumbled over one another. "Here," she said, and Rand was surprised when she pressed a coin into his palm, closing his hand tightly around it with both of hers. "Theres no need," he began, but she waved aside his protest as she gave Ewin a coin as well, then pressed Mats hand around one the same way she had Rands. "Of course, there is," she said. "You cannot be expected to work for nothing. Consider this a token, and keep it with you, so you will remember that you have agreed to come to me when I ask it. There is a bond between us now." "Ill never forget," Ewin piped up. "Later we must talk," she said, "and you must tell me all about yourselves. " "Lady ... I mean, Moiraine?" Rand asked hesitantly as she turned away. She stopped and looked back over her shoulder, and he had to swallow before going on. "Why have you come to Emonds Field?" Her expression was unchanged, but suddenly he wished he had not asked, though he could not have said why. He rushed to explain himself, anyway. "I dont mean to be rude. Im sorry. Its just that no one comes into the Two Rivers except the merchants, and peddlers when the snow isnt too deep to get down from Baerlon. Almost no one. Certainly no one like you. The merchants guards sometimes say this is the back end of forever, and I suppose it must seem that way to anyone from outside. I just wondered." Her smile did fade then, slowly, as if something had been recalled to her. For a moment she merely looked at him. "I am a student of history," she said at last, "a collector of old stories. This place you call the Two Rivers has always interested me. Sometimes I study the stories of what happened here long ago, here and at other places." "Stories?" Rand said. "What ever happened in the Two Rivers to interest someone like - I mean, what could have happened here?" "And what else would you call it beside the Two Rivers?" Mat added. "Thats what it has always been called." "As the Wheel of Time turns," Moiraine said, half to herself and with a distant look in her eyes, "places wear many names. Men wear many names, many faces. Different faces, but always the same man. Yet no one knows the Great Pattern the Wheel weaves, or even the Pattern of an Age. We can only watch, and study, and hope." Rand stared at her, unable to say a word, even to ask what she meant. He was not sure she had meant for them to hear. The other two were just as tonguetied, he noticed. Ewins mouth hung open. Moiraine focused on them again, and all three gave a little shake as if waking up. "Later we will talk," she said. None of them said a word. "Later." She moved on toward the Wagon Bridge, appearing to glide over the ground rather than walk, her cloak spreading on either side of her like wings. As she left, a tall man Rand had not noticed before moved away from the front of the inn and followed her, one hand resting on the long hilt of a sword. His clothes were a dark grayish green that would have faded into leaf or shadow, and his cloak swirled through shades of gray and green and brown as it shifted in the wind. It almost seemed to disappear at times, that cloak, fading into whatever lay beyond it. His hair was long, and gray at the temples, held back from his face by a narrow leather headband. That face was made from stony planes and angles, weathered but unlined despite the gray in his hair. When he moved, Rand could think of nothing but a wolf. In passing the three youths his gaze ran over them, eyes as cold and blue as a midwinter dawn. It was as if he were weighing them in his mind, and there was no sign on his face of what the scales told him. He quickened his pace until he caught up to Moiraine, then slowed to walk by her shoulder, bending to speak to her. Rand let out a breath he had not realized he had been holding. "That was Lan," Ewin said throatily, as if he, too, had been holding his breath. it had been that kind of look. "Ill bet hes a Warder." "Dont be a fool." Mat laughed, but it was a shaky laugh. "Warders are just in stories. Anyway, Warders have swords and armor covered in gold and jewels, and spend all their time up north, in the Great Blight, fighting evil and Trollocs and such." "He could be a Warder," Ewin insisted. "Did you see any gold or jewels on him?" Mat scoffed. "Do we have Trollocs in the Two Rivers? We have sheep. I wonder what could ever have happened here to interest someone like her." "Something could have," Rand answered slowly. "They say the inns been here for a thousand years, maybe more." usand years of sheep," Mat said. "A silver penny!" Ewin burst out. "She gave me a whole silver penny! Think what I can buy when the peddler comes." Rand opened his hand to look at the coin she had given him, and almost dropped it in surprise. He did not recognize the fat silver coin with the raised image of a woman balancing a single flame on her upturned hand, but he had watched while Bran alVere weighed out the coins merchants brought from a dozen lands, and he had an idea of its value. That much silver would buy a good horse anywhere in the Two Rivers, with some left over. He looked at Mat and saw the same stunned expression he knew must be On his own face. Tilting his hand so Mat could see the coin but not Ewin, he raised a questioning eyebrow. Mat nodded, and for a minute they stared at one another in perplexed wonder. "What kind of chores does she have?" Rand asked finally. "I dont know," Mat said firmly, "and I dont care. I wont spend it, either. Even when the peddler comes." With that he thrust his coin into his coat pocket. Nodding, Rand slowly did the same with his. He was not sure why, but somehow what Mat said seemed right. The coin should not be spent. Not when it came from her. He could not think of anything else silver was good for, but ... "Do you think I should keep mine, too?" Anguished indecision painted Ewins face. "Not unless you want to," Mat said. "I think she gave it to you to spend," Rand said. Ewin looked at his coin, then shook his head and stuffed the silver penny into his pocket. "Ill keep it," he said mournfully. "Theres still the gleeman," Rand said, and the younger boy brightened. "If he ever wakes up," Mat added. "Rand," Ewin asked, "is there a gleeman?" "Youll see," Rand answered with a laugh. It was clear Ewin would not believe until he set eyes on the gleeman. "He has to come down sooner or later. " Shouting drifted across the Wagon Bridge, and when Rand looked to see what was causing it, his laughter became wholehearted. A milling crowd of villagers, from grayhaired oldsters to toddlers barely able to walk, escorted a tall wagon toward the bridge, a huge wagon drawn by eight horses, the outside of its rounded canvas cover hung about with bundles like bunches of grapes. The peddler had come at last. Strangers and a gleeman, fireworks and a peddler. It was going to be the best Bel Tine ever. 