 41 () 41 Old Friends, and New Threats Back at The Queens Blessing, Rand threw himself against the front doorframe, panting. He had run all the way, not caring if anyone saw that he wore the red, or even if they took his running as an excuse to chase him. He did not think even a Fade could have caught him. Lamgwin was sitting on a bench by the door, a brindle cat in his arms, when he came running up. The man stood to look for trouble the way Rand had come, still calmly scratching behind the cats ears. Seeing nothing, he sat back down again, careful not to disturb the animal. "Fools tried to steal some of the cats a while back," he said. He examined his knuckles before going back to his scratching. "Good money in cats these days." The two men showing the white were still across the way, Rand saw, one with a black eye and a swollen jaw. That one wore a sour scowl and rubbed his sword hilt with a sullen eagerness as he watched the inn. "Wheres Master Gill?" Rand asked. "Library," Lamgwin replied. The cat began purring, and he grinned. "Nothing bothers a cat for long, not even somebody trying to stick him in a sack." Rand hurried inside, through the common room, now with its usual complement of men wearing the red and talking over their ale. About the false Dragon, and whether the Whitecloaks would make trouble when he was taken north. No one cared what happened to Logain, but they all knew the DaughterHeir and Lord Gawyn would be traveling in the party, and no man there would countenance any risk to them. He found Master Gill in the library, playing stones with Loial. A plump tabby sat on the table, feet tucked under her, watching their hands move over the crosshatched board. The Ogier placed another stone with a touch oddly delicate for his thick fingers. Shaking his head, Master Gill took the excuse of Rands appearance to turn from the table. Loial almost always won at stones. "I was beginning to worry where you were, lad. Thought you might have had trouble with some of those whiteflashing traitors, or run into that beggar or something. " For a minute Rand stood there with his mouth open. He had forgotten all about that bundleofrags of a man. "I saw him," he said finally, "but thats nothing. I saw the Queen, too, and Elaida; thats where the trouble is. " Master Gill snorted a laugh. "The Queen, eh? You dont say. We had Gareth Bryne out in the common room an hour or so ago, armwrestling the Lord CaptainCommander of the Children, but the Queen, now ... thats something." "Blood and ashes," Rand growled, "everybody thinks Im lying today." He tossed his cloak across the back of a chair and threw himself onto another. He was too wound up to sit back. He perched on the front edge, mopping his face with a handkerchief. "I saw the beggar, and he saw me, and I thought ... Thats not important. I climbed up on a wall around a garden, where I could see the plaza in front of the Palace, where they took Logain in. And I fell off, on the inside." "I almost believe you arent making fun," the innkeeper said slowly. "Taveren, " Loial murmured. "Oh, it happened," Rand said. "Light help me, it did." Master Gills skepticism melted slowly as he went on, turning to quiet alarm. The innkeeper leaned more and more forward until he was perched on the edge of his chair the same as Rand was. Loial listened impassively, except that every so often he rubbed his broad nose and the tufts on his Rand told everything that had happened, everything except what Elaida had whispered to him. And what Gawyn had said at the Palace gate. One he did not want to think about; the other had nothing to do with anything. Im Tam alThors son, even if I wasnt born in the Two Rivers. I am! Im Two Rivers blood, and Tam is my father. Abruptly he realized he had stopped talking, caught up in his thoughts, and they were looking at him. For one panicky moment he wondered if he had said too much. "Well," Master Gill said, "theres no more waiting for your friends for you. You will have to leave the city, and fast. Two days at the most. Can you get Mat on his feet in that time, or should I send for Mother Grubb? Rand gave him a perplexed look. "Two days?" "Elaida is Queen Morgases advisor, right next to CaptainGeneral Gareth Bryne himself. Maybe ahead of him. If she sets the Queens Guards looking for you - Lord Gareth wont stop her unless she interferes with their other duties - well, the Guards can search every inn in Caemlyn in two days. And thats saying some ill chance doesnt bring them here the first day, or the first hour. Maybe theres a little time if they start over at the Crown and Lion, but none for dawdling." Rand nodded slowly. "If I cant get Mat out of that bed, you send for Mother Grubb. I have a little money left. Maybe enough." "Ill take care of Mother Grubb," the innkeeper said gruffly. "And I suppose I can lend you a couple of horses. You try walking to Tar Valon and youll wear through whats left of your boots halfway there." "Youre a good friend," Rand said. "It seems like weve brought you nothing but trouble, but youre still willing to help. A good friend." Master Gill seemed embarrassed. He shrugged his shoulders and cleared his throat and looked down. That brought his eyes to the stones board, and he jerked them away again. Loial was definitely winning. "Aye, well, Thoms always been a good friend to me. If hes willing to go out of his way for you, I can do a little bit, too." "I would like to go with you when you leave, Rand," Loial said suddenly. "I thought that was settled, Loial." He hesitated - Master Gill still did not know the whole of the danger - then added, "You know what waits for Mat and me, whats chasing us." "Darkfriends," the Ogier replied in a placid rumble, "and Aes Sedai, and the Light knows what else. Or the Dark One. You are going to Tar Valon, and there is a very fine grove there, which I have heard the Aes Sedai tend well. In any case, there is more to see in the world than the groves. You truly are taveren, Rand. The Pattern weaves itself around you, and you stand in the heart of it." This man stands at the heart of it. Rand felt a chill. "I dont stand at the heart of anything," he said harshly. Master Gill blinked, and even Loial seemed taken aback at his anger. The innkeeper and the Ogier looked at each other, and then at the floor. Rand forced his expression smooth, drawing deep breaths. For a wonder he found the void that had eluded him so often of late, and calmness. They did not deserve his anger. "You can come, Loial," he said. "I dont know why you would want to, but Id be grateful for the company. You ... you know how Mat is." "I know," Loial said. "I still cannot go into the streets without raising a mob shouting Trolloc after me. But Mat, at least, only uses words. He has not tried to kill me. " "Of course not," Rand said. "Not Mat." He wouldnt go that far. Not Mat. A tap came at the door, and one of the serving maids, Gilda, stuck her head into the room. Her mouth was tight, and her eyes worried. "Master Gill, come quickly, please. Theres Whitecloaks in the common room." Master Gill leaped up with an oath, sending the cat jumping from the table to stalk out of the room, tail stiff and offended. "Ill come. Run tell them Im coming, then stay out of their way. You hear me, girl? Keep away from them." Gilda bobbed her head and vanished. "You had best stay here," he told Loial. The Ogier snorted, a sound like sheets ripping. "I have no desire for any more meetings with the Children of the Light." Master Gills eye fell on the stones board and his mood seemed to lighten. "It looks as if well have to start the game over later." "No need for that." Loial stretched an arm to the shelves and took down a book; his hands dwarfed the clothbound volume. "We can take up from where the board lies. It is your turn." Master Gill grimaced. "If it isnt one thing, its another," he muttered as he hurried from the room. d him, but slowly. He had no more desire than Loial to become involved with the Children. This man stands at the heart of it. He stopped at the door to the common room, where he could see what went on, but far enough back that he hoped he would not be noticed. Dead silence filled the room. Five Whitecloaks stood in the middle of the floor, studiously being ignored by the folk at the tables. One of them had the silver lightningflash of an underofficer beneath the sunburst on his cloak. Lamgwin was lounging against the wall by the front door, intently cleaning his fingernails with a splinter. Four more of the guards Master Gill had hired were spaced across the wall with him, all industriously paying no attention at all to the Whitecloaks. If the Children of the Light noticed anything, they gave no sign. Only the underofficer showed any emotion at all, impatiently tapping his steelbacked gauntlets against his palm as he waited for the innkeeper. Master Gill crossed the room to him quickly, a cautiously neutral look on his face. "The Light illumine you," he said with a careful bow, not too deep, but not slight enough to actually be insulting, either, "and our good Queen Morgase. How may I help - " "Ive no time for your drivel, innkeeper," the underofficer snapped. "Ive been to twenty inns already today, each a worse pigsty than the last, and Ill see twenty more before the sun sets. Im looking for Darkfriends, a boy from the Two Rivers - " Master Gills face grew darker with every word. He puffed up as if he would explode, and finally he did, cutting the Whitecloak off in turn. "There are no Darkfriends in my establishment! Every man here is a good Queens man!" "Yes, and we all know where Morgase stands," the underofficer twisted the Queens name into a sneer, "and her Tar Valon witch, dont we?" The scrape of chair legs was loud. Suddenly every man in the room was on his feet. They stood still as statues, but every one staring grimly at the Whitecloaks. The underofficer did not appear to notice, but the four behind him looked around uneasily. "It will go easier with you, innkeeper," the underofficer said, "if you cooperate. The temper of the times goes hard with those who shelter Darkfriends. I wouldnt think an inn with the Dragons Fang on its door would get much custom. Might have trouble with fire, with that on your door." "You get out of here now," Master Gill said quietly, "or Ill send for the Queens Guards to cart whats left of you to the middens." Lamgwins sword rasped out of its sheath, and the coarse scrape of steel on leather was repeated throughout the room as swords and daggers filled hands. Serving maids scurried for the doors. The underofficer looked around in scornful disbelief. "The Dragons Fang - " "Wont help you five," Master Gill finished for him. He held up a clenched fist and raised his forefinger. "One." "You must be mad, innkeeper, threatening the Children of the Light." "Whitecloaks hold no writ in Caemlyn. Two." "Can you really believe this will end here?" "Three. " "Well be back," the underofficer snapped, and then he was hastily turning his men around, trying to pretend he was leaving in good order and in his own time. He was hampered in this by the eagerness his men showed for the door, not running, but not making secret that they wanted to be outside. Lamgwin stood across the door with his sword, only giving way in response to Master Gills frantic waves. When the Whitecloaks were gone, the innkeeper dropped heavily onto a chair. He rubbed a hand across his forehead, then stared at it as if surprised that it was not covered with sweat. All over the room men seated themselves again, laughing over what they had done. Some went over to clap Master Gill on the shoulder. When he saw Rand, the innkeeper tottered off the chair and over to him. "Who would have thought I had it in me to be a hero?" he said wonderingly. "The Light illumine me." Abruptly he gave himself a shake, and his voice regained almost its normal tone. "Youll have to stay out of sight until I can get you out of the city." With a careful look back into the common room, he pushed Rand deeper into the hall. "That lot will be back, or else a few spies wearing red for the day. After that little show I put on, I doubt theyll care whether youre here or not, but theyll act "Thats crazy," Rand protested. At the innkeepers gesture he lowered his voice. "The Whitecloaks dont have any reason to be after me." "I dont know about reasons, lad, but theyre after you and Mat for certain sure. What have you been up to? Elaida and the Whitecloaks." Rand raised his hands in protest, then let them fall. It made no sense, but he had heard the Whitecloak. "What about you? The Whitecloaks will make trouble for you even when they dont find us." "No worries about that, lad. The Queens Guards still uphold the law, even if they do let traitors strut around showing white. As for the night ... well, Lamgwin and his friends might not get much sleep, but I could almost pity anybody who tries to put a mark on my door." Gilda appeared beside them, dropping a curtsy to Master Gill. "Sir, theres... theres a lady. In the kitchens." She sounded scandalized at the combination. "Shes asking for Master Rand, sir, and Master Mat, by name. " Rand exchanged a puzzled look with the innkeeper. "Lad," Master Gill said, "if youve actually managed to bring the Lady Elayne down from the Palace to my inn, well all end up facing the headsman." Gilda squeaked at the mention of the DaughterHeir and gave Rand a roundeyed stare. "Off with you, girl," the innkeeper said sharply. "And keep quiet about what youve heard. Its nobodys business." Gilda bobbed again and darted down the hallway, flashing glances over her shoulder at Rand as she went. "In five minutes" - Master Gill sighed - "she will be telling the other women youre a prince in disguise. By nightfall it will be all over the New City." "Master Gill," Rand said, "I never mentioned Mat to Elayne. It cant be - " Suddenly a huge smile lit up his face, and he ran for the kitchens. "Wait!" the innkeeper called behind him. "Wait until you know. Wait, you fool!" Rand threw open the door to the kitchens, and there they were. Moiraine rested her serene eyes on him, unsurprised. Nynaeve and Egwene ran laughing to throw their arms around him, with Perrin crowding in behind them, all three patting his shoulders as if they had to be convinced that he was really there. In the doorway leading to the stableyard Lan lounged with one boot up on the doorframe, dividing his attention between the kitchen and the yard outside. Rand tried to hug the two women and shake Perrins hand, all at the same time, and it was a tangle of arms and laughter complicated by Nynaeve trying to feel his face for fever. They looked somewhat the worse for wear - bruises on Perrins face, and he had a way of keeping his eyes downcast that he had never had before - but they were alive, and together again. His throat was so tight he could barely talk. "I was afraid Id never see you again," he managed finally. "I was afraid you were all ..." "I knew you were alive," Egwene said against his chest. "I always knew it. Always." "I did not," Nynaeve said. Her voice was sharp for just that moment, but it softened in the next, and she smiled up at him. "You look well, Rand. Not overfed by any means, but well, thank the Light." "Well," Master Gill said behind him, "I guess you know these people after all. Those friends you were looking for?" Rand nodded. "Yes, my friends." He made introductions all around; it still felt odd to be giving Lan and Moiraine their right names. They both eyed him sharply when he did. The innkeeper greeted everyone with an open smile, but he was properly impressed at meeting a Warder, and especially at Moiraine . At her he gaped openly - it was one thing knowing an Aes Sedai had been helping the boys, quite something else having her appear in the kitchen - then bowed deeply. "You are welcome to The Queens Blessing, Aes Sedai, as my guest. Though I suppose you will be staying at the Palace with Elaida Sedai, and the Aes Sedai who came with the false Dragon." Bowing again, he gave Rand a quick, worried look. It was all very well to say he did not speak ill of Aes Sedai, but that was not the same as saying he wanted one sleeping under his roof. Rand nodded encouragingly, trying to tell him silently that it was all right. Moiraine was not like Elaida, with a threat hidden behind every glance, under every word. Are you sure? Even now, are you sure? "I believe I will stay here," Moiraine said, "for the short time I remain in Caemlyn. And you must allow me to pay." A calico cat sauntered in from the hallway to strop the innkeepers ankles. No sooner had the calico begun than a fuzzy gray sprang from under the table, arching its back and hissing. The calico crouched with a threatening growl, and the gray streaked past Lan into the stableyard. Master Gill began apologizing for the cats at the same time he protested that Moiraine would honor him by being his guest, and was she sure she would not prefer the Palace, which he would quite understand, but he hoped she would accept his best room as a gift. It made a jumble to which Moiraine seemed to pay no attention at all. Instead she bent down to scratch the orangeandwhite cat; it promptly left Master Gills ankles for hers. "Ive seen four other cats here, so far," she said. "You have a problem with mice? Rats?" "Rats, Moiraine Sedai." The innkeeper sighed. "A terrible problem. Not that I dont keep a clean place, you understand. Its all the people. The whole city is full of people and rats. But my cats take care of it. Youll not be troubled, I promise." ed a fleeting look with Perrin, who put his eyes down again right away. There was something odd about Perrins eyes. And he was so silent; Perrin was almost always slow to speak, but now he was saying nothing at all. "It could be all the people," he said. "With your permission, Master Gill," Moiraine said, as if she took it for granted. "It is a simple matter to keep rats away from this street. With luck, the rats will not even realize they are being kept away." Master Gill frowned at that last, but he bowed, accepting her offer. "If you are sure you dont want to stay at the Palace, Aes Sedai. " "Where is Mat?" Nynaeve said suddenly. "She said he was here, too." "Upstairs," Rand said. "Hes ... not feeling well." Nynaeves head came up. "Hes sick? Ill leave the rats to her, and Ill attend to him. Take me to him now, Rand. " "All of you go up," Moiraine said. "I will join you in a few minutes. We are crowding Master Gills kitchen, and it would be best if we could all be somewhere quiet for a time." There was an undercurrent in her voice. Stay out of sight. The hiding is not done yet. "Come on," Rand said. "Well go up the back way." The Emonds Field folk crowded after him to the back staircase, leaving the Aes Sedai and the Warder in the kitchen with Master Gill. He could not get over being back together. It was nearly as if he were home again. He could not stop grinning. The same relief, almost joyous, seemed to be affecting the others. They chuckled to themselves, and kept reaching out to grip his arm. Perrins voice seemed subdued, and he still kept his head down, but he began to talk as they climbed. "Moiraine said she could find you and Mat, and she did. When we rode into the city, the rest of us couldnt stop staring - well, all except Lan, of course - all the people, the buildings, everything." His thick curls swung as he shook his head in disbelief. "Its all so big. And so many people. Some of them kept staring at us, too, shouting Red or white? like it made some kind of sense." Egwene touched Rands sword, fingering the red wrappings. "What does it mean?" "Nothing," he said. "Nothing important. Were leaving for Tar Valon, remember?" Egwene gave him a look, but she removed her hand from the sword and took up where Perrin had left off. "Moiraine didnt look at anything any more than Lan did. She led us back and forth through all those streets so many times, like a dog hunting a scent, that I thought you couldnt be here. Then, all of a sudden, she took off down a street, and the next thing I knew we were handing the horses to the stablemen and marching into the kitchen. She never even asked if you were here. Just told a woman who was mixing batter to go tell Rand alThor and Mat Cauthon that someone wanted to see them. And there you were" - she grinned -"like a ball popping into the gleemans hand out of nowhere." "Where is the gleeman?" Perrin asked. "Is he with you?" Rands stomach lurched and the good feeling of having friends around him dimmed. "Thoms dead. I think hes dead. There was a Fade ..." He could not say any more. Nynaeve shook her head, muttering under her breath. The silence thickened around them, stifling the little chuckles, flattening the joy, until they reached the head of the stairs. "Mats not sick, exactly," he said then. "Its ... Youll see." He flung open the door to the room he shared with Mat. "Look w Mat was still curled up in a ball on the bed, just as Rand had left him. He raised his head to stare at them. "How do you know theyre really who they look like?" he said hoarsely. His face was flushed, the skin tight and slick with sweat. "How do I know youre who you look like?" "Not sick?" Nynaeve gave Rand a disdainful look as she pushed past him, already unslinging her bag from her shoulder. "Everybody changes," Mat rasped. "How can I be sure? Perrin? Is that you? Youve changed, havent you?" His laugh sounded more like a cough. "Oh, yes, youve changed." To Rands surprise Perrin dropped onto the edge of the other bed with his head in hands, staring at the floor. Mats hacking laughter seemed to pierce him. Nynaeve knelt beside Mats bed and put a hand to his face, pushing up his headcloth. He jerked back from her with a scornful look. His eyes were bright and glazed. "Youre burning," she said, "but you should not be sweating with this much fever." She could not keep the worry out of her voice. "Rand, you and Perrin fetch some clean cloths and as much cool water as you can carry. Ill bring your temperature down first, Mat, and -" "Pretty Nynaeve," Mat spat. "A Wisdom isnt supposed to think of herself as a woman, is she? Not a pretty woman. But you do, dont you? Now. You cant make yourself forget that youre a pretty woman, now, and it frightens you. Everybody changes." Nynaeves face paled as he spoke, whether with anger or something else, Rand could not tell. Mat gave a sly laugh, and his feverish eyes slid to Egwene. "Pretty Egwene," he croaked. "Pretty as Nynaeve. And you share other things now, dont you? Other dreams. What do you dream about now?" Egwene took a step back from the bed. "We are safe from the Dark Ones eyes for the time being," Moiraine announced as she walked into the room with Lan at her heels. Her eyes fell on Mat as she stepped through the doorway, and she hissed as if she had touched a hot stove. "Get away from him!" Nynaeve did not move except for turning to stare at the Aes Sedai in surprise. In two quick steps Moiraine seized the Wisdom by the shoulders, hauling her across the floor like a sack of grain. Nynaeve struggled and protested, but Moiraine did not release her until she was well away from the bed. The Wisdom continued her protests as she got to her feet, angrily straightening her clothes, but Moiraine ignored her completely. The Aes Sedai watched Mat to the exclusion of everything else, eyeing him the way she would a viper. "All of you stay away from him," she said. "And be quiet." Mat stared back as intently as she. He bared his teeth in a silent, snarling rictus, and pulled himself into an ever tighter knot, but he never took his eyes from hers. Slowly she put one hand on him, lightly, on a knee drawn up to his chest. A convulsion shook him at her touch, a shudder of revulsion spasming through his entire body, and abruptly he pulled one hand out, slashing at her face with the rubyhilted dagger. One minute Lan was in the doorway, the next he was at the bedside, as if he had not bothered with the intervening space. His hand caught Mats wrist, stopping the slash as if it had struck stone. Still Mat held himself in that tight ball. Only the hand with the dagger tried to move, straining against the Warders implacable grip. Mats eyes never left Moiraine, and they burned with hate. Moiraine also did not move. She did not flinch from the blade only inches from her face, as she had not when he first struck. "How did he come by this?" she asked in a steel voice. "I asked if Mordeth had given you anything. I asked, and I warned you, and you said he had not." "He didnt," Rand said. "He ... Mat took it from the treasure room." Moiraine looked at him, her eyes seeming to burn as much as Mats. He almost stepped back before she turned away again, back to the bed. "I didnt know until after we were separated. I didnt know." "You did not know." Moiraine studied Mat. He still lay with his knees pulled up to his chest, still snarled soundlessly at her, and his hand yet fought Lan to reach her with the dagger. "It is a wonder you got this far, carrying this. I felt the evil of it when I laid eyes on him, the touch of Mashadar, but a Fade could sense it for miles. Even though he would not know exactly where, he would know it was near, and Mashadar would draw his spirit while his bones remembered that this same evil swallowed an army - Dreadlords, Fades, Trollocs, and all. Some Darkfriends could probably feel it, too. Those who have truly given away their souls. There could not help but be those who would wonder at suddenly feeling this, as if the very air around them itched. They would be compelled to seek it. It should have drawn them to it as a magnet draws iron filings." "There were Darkfriends," Rand said, "more than once, but we got away from them. And a Fade, the night before we reached Caemlyn, but he never saw us." He cleared his throat. "There are rumors of strange things in the night outside the city. It could be Trollocs. " "Oh, its Trollocs, sheepherder," Lan said wryly. "And where Trollocs are, there are Fades." Tendons stood out on the back of his hand from the effort of holding Mats wrist, but there was no strain in his voice. "Theyve tried to hide their passage, but I have seen sign for two days. And heard farmers and villagers mutter about things in the night. The Myrddraal managed to strike into the Two Rivers unseen, somehow, but every day they come closer to those who can send soldiers to hunt them down. Even so, they wont stop now, sheepherder." "But were in Caemlyn," Egwene said. "They cant get to us as long as -" "They cant?" the Warder cut her off. "The Fades are building their numbers in the countryside. Thats plain enough from the sign, if you know what to look for. Already there are more Trollocs than they need just to watch all the ways out of the city, a dozen fists, at least. There can only be one reason; when the Fades have enough numbers, they will come into the city after you. That act may send half the armies of the south marching to the Borderlands, but the evidence is that theyre willing to take that risk. You three have escaped them too long. It looks as if youve brought a new Trolloc War to Caemlyn, sheepherder." Egwene gave a gasping sob, and Perrin shook his head as though to deny it. Rand felt a sickness in his stomach at the thought of Trollocs in the streets of Caemlyn. All those people at one anothers throats, never realizing the real threat waiting to come over the walls. What would they do when they suddenly found Trollocs and Fades in their midst, killing them? He could see the towers burning, flames breaking through the domes, Trollocs pillaging through the curving streets and vistas of the Inner City. The Palace itself in flames. Elayne, and Gawyn, and Morgase ... dead. "Not yet," Moiraine said absently. She was still intent on Mat. "If we can find a way out of Caemlyn, the Halfmen will have no more interest here. If. So many ifs." "Better we were all dead," Perrin said suddenly, and Rand jumped at the echo of his own thoughts. Perrin still sat staring at the floor - glaring at it now - and his voice was bitter. "Everywhere we go, we bring pain and suffering on our backs. It would be better for everyone if we were dead." Nynaeve rounded on him, her face half fury and half worried fear, but Moiraine forestalled her. "What do you think to gain, for yourself or anyone else, by dying?" the Aes Sedai asked. Her voice was level, yet sharp. "If the Lord of the Grave has gained as much freedom to touch the Pattern as I fear, he can reach you dead more easily than alive, now. Dead, you can help no one, not the people who have helped you, not your friends and family back in the Two Rivers. The Shadow is falling over the world, and none of you can stop it dead." d his head to look at her, and Rand gave a start. The irises of his friends eyes were more yellow than brown. With his shaggy hair and the intensity of his gaze, there was something about him... Rand could not grasp it enough to make it out. Perrin spoke with a soft flatness that gave his words more weight than if he had shouted. "We cant stop it alive, either, now can we?" "I will have time to argue with you later," Moiraine said, "but your friend needs me now." She stepped aside so they could all see Mat clearly. His eyes still on her with a ragefilled stare, he had not moved or changed his position on the bed. Sweat stood out on his face, and his lips were bloodless in an unchanging snarl. All of his strength seemed to be pouring into the effort to reach Moiraine with the dagger Lan held motionless. "Or had you forgotten?" Perrin gave an embarrassed shrug and spread his hands wordlessly. "Whats wrong with him?" Egwene asked, and Nynaeve added, "Is it catching? I can still treat him. I dont seem to catch sick, no matter what it is." "Oh, it is catching," Moiraine said, "and your... protection would not save you." She pointed to the rubyhilted dagger, careful not to let her finger touch it. The blade trembled as Mat strained to reach her with it. "This is from Shadar Logoth. There is not a pebble of that city that is not tainted and dangerous to bring outside the walls, and this is far more than a pebble. The evil that killed Shadar Logoth is in it, and in Mat, too, now. Suspicion and hatred so strong that even those closest are seen as enemies, rooted so deep in the bone that eventually the only thought left is to kill. By carrying the dagger beyond the walls of Shadar Logoth he freed it, this seed of it, from what bound it to that place. It will have waxed and waned in him, what he is in the heart of him fighting what the contagion of Mashadar sought to make him, but now the battle inside him is almost done, and he almost defeated. Soon, if it does not kill him first, he will spread that evil like a plague wherever he goes. Just as one scratch from that blade is enough to infect and destroy, so, soon, a few minutes with Mat will Nynaeves face had gone white. "Can you do anything?" she whispered. "I hope so." Moiraine sighed. "For the sake of the world, I hope I am not too late." Her hand delved into the pouch at her belt and came out with the silkshrouded angreal . "Leave me. Stay together, and find somewhere you will not be seen, but leave me. I will do what I can for him." 