 42 () 42 Remembrance of Dreams It was a subdued group that Rand led back down the stairs. None of them wanted to talk to him now, or to one another. He did not feel much like talking, either. The sun was far enough across the sky to dim the back stairwell, but the lamps had not yet been lit. Sunlight and shadow striped the stairs. Perrins face was as closed as the others, but where worry creased everyone elses brow, his was smooth. Rand thought the look Perrin wore was resignation. He wondered why, and wanted to ask, but whenever Perrin walked through a deeper patch of shadow, his eyes seemed to gather in what little light there was, glowing softly like polished amber. Rand shivered and tried to concentrate on his surroundings, on the walnut paneled walls and the oak stair railing, on sturdy, everyday things He wiped his hands on his coat several times, but each time sweat sprang out on his palms anew. Itll all be all right, now. Were together again, and ... Light, Mat. He took them to the library by the back way that went by the kitchens, avoiding the common room. Not many travelers used the library; most of those who could read stayed at more elegant inns in the Inner City. Master Gill kept it more for his own enjoyment than for the handful of patrons who wanted a book now and then. Rand did not want to think why Moiraine wanted them to keep out of sight, but he kept remembering the Whitecloak underofficer saying he would be back, and Elaidas eyes when she asked where he was staying. Those were reasons enough, whatever Moiraine wanted. He took five steps into the library before he realized that everyone else had stopped, crowded together in the doorway, openmouthed and goggling. A brisk blaze crackled in the fireplace, and Loial was sprawled on the long couch, reading, a small black cat with white feet curled and half asleep on his stomach. When they entered he closed the book with a huge finger marking his place and gently set the cat on the floor, then stood to bow formally. Rand was so used to the Ogier that it took him a minute to realize that Loial was the object of the others stares. "These are the friends I was waiting for, Loial," he said. "This is Nynaeve, the Wisdom of my village. And Perrin. And this is Egwene." "Ah, yes," Loial boomed, "Egwene. Rand has spoken of you a great deal. Yes. I am Loial." "Hes an Ogier," Rand explained, and watched their amazement change in kind. Even after Trollocs and Fades in the flesh, it was still astonishing to meet a legend walking and breathing. Remembering his own first reaction to Loial, he grinned ruefully. They were doing better than he had. Loial took their gaping in his stride. Rand supposed he hardly noticed it compared with a mob shouting "Trolloc." "And the Aes Sedai, Rand?" Loial asked. "Upstairs with Mat." The Ogier raised one bushy eyebrow thoughtfully. "Then he is ill. I suggest we all be seated. She will be joining us? Yes. Then theres nothing to do but wait." The act of sitting seemed to loosen some catch inside the Emonds Field folk, as if being in a wellstuffed chair with a fire in the fireplace and a cat now curled up on the hearth made them feel at home. As soon as they were settled they excitedly began asking the Ogier questions. To Rands surprise, Perrin was the first to speak. "The stedding, Loial. Are they really havens, the way the stories say?" His voice was intent, as if he had a particular reason for asking. Loial was glad to tell about the stedding, and how he came to be at The Queens Blessing, and what he had seen in his travels. Rand soon leaned back, only partly listening. He had heard it all before, in detail. Loial liked to talk, and talk at length when he had the slightest chance, though he usually seemed to think a story needed two or three hundred years of background to make it understood. His sense of time was very strange; to him three hundred years seemed a reasonable length of time for a story or explanation to cover. He always talked about leaving the stedding as if it were just a few months before, but it had finally come out that he had been gone more than three years. Rands thoughts drifted to Mat. A dagger. A bloody knife, and it might kill him just from carrying it. Light, I dont want any more adventure. If she can heal him, we should all go ... not home. Cant go home. Somewhere. Well all go somewhere theyve never heard of Aes Sedai or the Dark One. Somewhere. The door opened, and for a moment Rand thought he was still imagining. Mat stood there, blinking, with his coat buttoned up and the dark scarf wrapped low around his forehead. Then Rand saw Moiraine, with her hand on Mats shoulder, and Lan behind them. The Aes Sedai was watching Mat carefully, as one watches someone only lately out of a sickbed. As always, Lan was watching everything while appearing to watch nothing. Mat looked as if he had never been sick a day. His first, hesitant smile included everyone, though it slipped into an openmouthed stare at the sight of Loial, as if he were seeing the Ogier for the first time. With a shrug and a shake, he turned his attention back to his friends. "I ... ah ... that is..." He took a deep breath. "It ... ah ... it seems Ive been acting ... ah ... sort of oddly. I dont remember much of it, really." He gave Moiraine an uneasy look. She smiled back confidently, and he went on. "Everything is hazy after Whitebridge. Thom, and the ..." He shivered and hurried on. "The further from Whitebridge, the hazier it gets. I dont really remember arriving in Caemlyn at all." He eyed Loial askance. "Not really. Moiraine Sedai says I ... upstairs, I ... ah ..." He grinned, and suddenly he truly was the old Mat. "You cant hold a man to blame for what he does when hes crazy, can you?" "You always were crazy," Perrin said, and for a moment he, too, sounded as of old. dquo; Nynaeve said. Tears made her eyes bright, but she was smiling. "None of us blames you." Rand and Egwene began talking at once then, telling Mat how happy they were to see him well and how well he looked, with a few laughing comments thrown in about hoping that he was done with tricks now that one so ugly had been played on him. Mat met banter with banter as he found a chair with all of his old swagger. As he sat down, still grinning, he absentmindedly touched his coat as if to make sure that something tucked behind his belt was still there, and Rands breath caught. "Yes," Moiraine said quietly, "he still has the dagger." The laughter and talk was still going on among the rest of the Emonds Field folk, but she had noticed his sudden intake of breath and had seen what had caused it. She moved closer to his chair, where she did not have to raise her voice for him to hear clearly. "I cannot take it away from him without killing him. The binding has lasted too long, and grown too strong. That must be unknotted in Tar Valon; it is beyond me, or any lone Aes Sedai, even with an angreal." "But he doesnt look sick anymore." He had a thought and looked up at her. "As long as he has the dagger, the Fades will know where we are. Darkfriends, too, some of them. You said so." "I have contained that, after a fashion. If they come close enough to sense it now, they will be on top of us anyway. I cleansed the taint from him, Rand, and did what I could to slow its return, but return it will, in time, unless he receives help in Tar Valon." "A good thing thats where were going, isnt it?" He thought maybe it was the resignation in his voice, and the hope for something else, that made her give him a sharp look before turning away. Loial was on his feet, bowing to her. "I am Loial, son of Arent son of Halan, Aes Sedai. The stedding offers sanctuary to the Servants of the Light. " "Thank you, Loial, son of Arent," Moiraine answered dryly, "but I would not be too free with that greeting if I were you. There are perhaps twenty Aes Sedai in Caemlyn at this moment, and every one but I of the Red Ajah." Loial nodded sagely, as if he understood. Rand could only shake his head in confusion; he would be Lightblinded if he knew what she meant. "It is strange to find you here," the Aes Sedai went on. "Few Ogier leave the stedding in recent years." "The old stories caught me, Aes Sedai. The old books filled my unworthy head with pictures. I want to see the groves. And the cities we built, too. There do not seem to be many of either still standing, but if buildings are a poor substitute for trees, they are still worth seeing. The Elders think Im odd, wanting to travel. I always have, and they always have. None of them believe there is anything worth seeing outside the stedding. Perhaps when I return and tell them what Ive seen, they will change their minds. I hope so. In time." "Perhaps they will," Moiraine said smoothly. "Now, Loial, you must forgive me for being abrupt. It is a failing of humankind, I know. My companions and I have urgent need to plan our journey. If y It was Loials turn to look confused. Rand came to his rescue. "Hes coming with us. I promised him he could." Moiraine stood looking at the Ogier as if she had not heard, but finally she nodded. "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills," she murmured. "Lan, see that we are not taken unaware." The Warder vanished from the room, silently but for the click of the door shutting behind him. Lans disappearance acted like a signal; all talk was cut off. Moiraine moved to the fireplace, and when she turned back to the room every eye was on her. Slight of build as she was, her presence dominated. "We cannot remain long in Caemlyn, nor are we safe here in The Queens Blessing. The Dark Ones eyes are already in the city. They have not found what they are searching for, or they would not still be looking. That we have to our advantage. I have set wards to keep them away, and by the time the Dark One realizes that there is a part of the city the rats no longer enter, we will be gone. Any ward that will turn a man aside, though, would be as good as a beacon fire for the Myrddraal, and there are Children of the Light in Caemlyn, also, looking for Perrin and Egwene." Rand made a sound, and Moiraine raised an eyebrow at him. "I thought they were looking for Mat and me," he said. The explanation made both the Aes Sedais eyebrows lift. "Why would you think the Whitecloaks were looking for you?" "I heard one say they were looking for someone from the Two Rivers. Darkfriends, he said. What else was I supposed to think? With everything thats been happening, Im lucky I can think at all." "It has been confusing, I know, Rand," Loial put in, "but you can think more clearly than that. The Children hate Aes Sedai. Elaida would not - " "Elaida?" Moiraine cut in sharply. "What has Elaida Sedai to do with this?" She was looking at Rand so hard that he wanted to lean back. "She wanted to throw me in prison," he said slowly. "All I wanted was a look at Logain, but she wouldnt believe I was in the Palace gardens with Elayne and Gawyn just by chance." They were all staring at him as if he had suddenly sprouted a third eye, all except Loial. "Queen Morgase let me go. She said there was no proof I meant any harm and she was going to uphold the law no matter what Elaida suspected." He shook his head, the memory of Morgase in all her radiance making him forget for a minute that anyone was looking at him. "Can you imagine me meeting a Queen? Shes beautiful, like the queens in stories. So is Elayne. And Gawyn ... youd like Gawyn, Perrin. Perrin? Mat?" They were still staring. "Blood and ashes, I just climbed up on the wall for a look at the false Dragon. I didnt do anything wrong." "Thats what I always say," Mat said blandly, though he was suddenly grinning hard, and Egwene asked in a decidedly neutral voice, "Whos Elayne?" Moiraine muttered something crossly. "A Queen," Perrin said, shaking his head. "You really have had adventures. All we met were Tinkers and some Whitecloaks." He avoided looking at Moiraine so obviously that Rand saw the avoidance plain. Perrin touched the bruises on his face. "On the whole, singing with the Tinkers was more fun than the Whitecloaks." "The Traveling People live for their songs," Loial said. "For all songs, for that matter. For the search for them, at least. I met some Tuathaan a few years back, and they wanted to learn the songs we sing to trees. Actually, the trees wont listen to very many anymore, and so not many Ogier learn the songs. I have a scrap of that Talent, so Elder Arent insisted I learn. I taught the Tuathaan what they could learn, but the trees never listen to humans. For the Traveling People they were only songs, and just as well received for that, since none was the song they seek . Thats what they call the leader of each band, the Seeker. They come to Stedding Shangtai, sometimes. Few humans do." "If you please, Loial," Moiraine said, but he cleared his throat suddenly and went on in a quick rumble as if afraid she might stop him. "Ive just remembered something, Aes Sedai, something I have always wanted to ask an Aes Sedai if ever I met one, since you know many things and have great libraries in Tar Valon, and now I have, of course, and ... may I?" "If you make it brief," she said curtly. "Brief," he said as though wondering what it meant. "Yes. Well. Brief. There was a man came to Stedding Shangtai a little time back. This was not unusual in itself, at the time, since a great many refugees had come to the Spine of the World fleeing what you humans call the Aiel War." Rand grinned. A little time back; twenty years, near enough. "He was at the point of death, though there was no wound or mark on him. The Elders thought it might be something Aes Sedai had done" - Loial gave Moiraine an apologetic look - "since as soon as he was within the stedding he quickly got well. A few months. One night he left without a word to anyone, simply sneaked away when the moon was down." He looked at Moiraines face and cleared his throat again. "Yes. Brief. Before he left, he told a curious tale which he said he meant to carry to Tar Valon. He said the Dark One intended to blind the Eye of the World, and slay the Great Serpent, kill time itself. The Elders said he was as sound in his mind as in his body, but that was what he said. What I have wanted to ask is, can the Dark One do such a thing? Kill time itself? And the Eye of the World? Can he blind the eye of the Great Serpent? What does it mean?" Rand expected almost anything from Moiraine except what he saw. Instead of giving Loial an answer, or telling him she had no time for it now, she stood there staring right through the Ogier, frowning in thought. "Thats what the Tinkers told us," Perrin said. "Yes," Egwene said, "the Aiel story." Moiraine turned her head slowly. No other part of her moved. "What story?" It was an expressionless look she gave them, but it made Perrin take a deep breath, though when he spoke he was as deliberate as ever. "Some Tinkers crossing the Waste - they said they could do that unharmed - found Aiel dying after a battle with Trollocs. Before the last Aiel died, she - they were all women, apparently - told the Tinkers what Loial just said. The Dark One - they called him Sightblinder - intends to blind the Eye of the World. This was only three years ago, not twenty. Does it mean something?" ps everything," Moiraine said. Her face was still, but Rand had the feeling her mind raced behind those dark eyes. "Baalzamon," Perrin said suddenly. The name cut off all sound in the room. No one appeared to breathe. Perrin looked at Rand, then at Mat, his eyes strangely calm and more yellow than ever. "At the time I wondered where Id heard that name before ... the Eye of the World. Now I remember. Dont you?" "I dont want to remember anything," Mat said stiffly. "We have to tell her," Perrin continued. "Its important now. We cant keep it secret any longer. You see it, dont you, Rand?" "Tell me what?" Moiraines voice was harsh, and she seemed to be bracing for a blow. Her gaze had settled on Rand. He did not want to answer. He did not want to remember any more than Mat, but he did remember - and he knew Perrin was right. "Ive ..." He looked at his friends. Mat nodded reluctantly, Perrin decisively, but at least they had done it. He did not have to face her alone. "We have had ... dreams." He rubbed the spot on his finger where the thorn had stuck him once, remembering the blood when he woke. Queasily remembering the sunburned feel of his face another time. "Except maybe they werent dreams, exactly. Baalzamon was in them." He knew why Perrin had used that name; it was easier than saying the Dark One had been in your dreams, inside your head. "He said ... he said all sorts of things, but once he said the Eye of the World would never serve me." For a minute his mouth was as dry as dust. "He told me the same thing," Perrin said, and Mat sighed heavily, then nodded. Rand found he had spit in his mouth again. "You arent angry with us?" Perrin asked, sounding surprised, and Rand realized that Moiraine did not seem angry. She was studying them, but her eyes were clear and calm, if intent. "More with myself than you. But I did ask you to tell me if you had strange dreams. In the beginning, I asked." Though her voice remained level, a flash of anger crossed her eyes, and was gone in an instant. "Had I known after the first such, I might have been able to... There has not been a Dreamwalker in Tar Valon for nearly a thousand years, but I could have tried. Now it is too late. Each time the Dark One touches you, he makes the next touching easier for him. Perhaps my presence can still shield you somewhat, but even then ... Remember the stories of the Forsaken binding men to them? Strong men, men who had fought the Dark One from the start. Those stories are true, and none of the Forsaken had a tenth of the strength of their master, not Aginor or Lanfear, not Balthamel or Demandred, not even Ishamael, the Betrayer of Hope himself. " Nynaeve and Egwene were looking at him, Rand saw, him and Mat and Perrin all three. The womens faces were a blooddrained blend of fear and horror. Are they afrai "What can we do?" he asked. "There has to be something." "Staying close by me," Moiraine replied, "will help. Some. The protection from touching the True Source extends around me a little, remember. But you cannot always remain close to me. You can defend yourself, if you have the strength for it, but you must find the strength and will within yourself. I cannot give it to you." "I think Ive already found my protection," Perrin said, sounding resigned rather than happy. "Yes," Moiraine said, "I suppose you have." She looked at him until he dropped his eyes, and even then she stood considering. Finally she turned to the others. "There are limits to the Dark Ones power inside you. Yield even for an instant and he will have a string tied to your heart, a string you may never be able to cut. Surrender, and you will be his. Deny him, and his power fails. It is not easy when he touches your dreams, but it can be done. He can still send Halfmen against you, and Trollocs, and Draghkar, and other things, but he cannot make you his unless you let him." "Fades are bad enough," Perrin said. "I dont want him inside my head again," Mat growled. "Isnt there any way to keep him out?" Moiraine shook her head. "Loial has nothing to fear, nor Egwene, nor Nynaeve. Out of the mass of humanity, the Dark One can touch an individual only by chance, unless that person seeks it. But for a time, at least, you three are central to the Pattern. A Web of Destiny is being woven, and every thread leads straight to you. What else did the Dark One say to you?" "I dont remember it all that well," Perrin said. "There was something about one of us being chosen, something like that. I remember him laughing," he finished bleakly, "about who we were chosen by. He said I - we could serve him or die. And then wed still serve him." "He said the Amyrlin Seat would try to use us," Mat added, his voice fading as he remembered to whom he was speaking. He swallowed and went on. "He said just like Tar Valon used - he had some names. Davian, I think. I cant remember very well, either." "Raolin Darksbane," Perrin said. "Yes," Rand said, frowning. He had tried to forget everything about those dreams. It was unpleasant bringing them back. "Yurian Stonebow was another, and Guaire Amalasan." He stopped suddenly, hoping Moiraine had not noticed how suddenly. "I dont recognize any of them." But he had recognized one, now that he dredged them from the depths of memory. The name he had barely stopped himself from saying. Logain. The false Dragon. Light! Thom said they were dangerous names. Is that what Baalzamon meant? Moiraine wants to use one of us as a false Dragon? Aes Sedai hunt down false Dragons, they dont rule them. Do they? Light help me, do they? Moiraine was looking at him, but he could not read her face. "Do you know them?" he asked her. "Do they mean anything?" "The Father of Lies is a good name for the Dark One," Moiraine replied. "It was always his way to seed the worm of doubt wherever he could. It eats at mens minds like a canker. When you believe the Father of Lies, it is the first step toward surrender. Remember, if you surrender to the Dark One, he will make you his." An Aes Sedai never lies, but the truth she speaks may not be the truth you think you hear. That was what Tam had said, and she had not really answered his question. He kept his face expressionless and held his hands still on his knees, trying not to scrub the sweat off them on his breeches. Egwene was crying softly. Nynaeve had her arms around her, but she looked as if she wanted to cry, too. Rand almost wished he could. "They are all taveren," Loial said abruptly. He seemed brightened by the prospect, looking forward to watching from close by as the Pattern wove itself around them. Rand looked at him incredulously, and the Ogier gave an abashed shrug, but it was not enough to dim his eagerness. "So they are," Moiraine said. "Three of them, when I expected one. A great many things have happened that I did not expect. This news concerning the Eye of the World changes much." She paused, frowning. "For a time the Pattern does seem to be swirling around all three of you, just as Loial says, and the swirl will grow greater before it becomes less. Sometimes being taveren means the Pattern is forced to bend to you, and sometimes it means the Pattern forces you to the needed path. The Web can still be woven many ways, and some of those designs would be disastrous. For you, for the world. "We cannot remain in Caemlyn, but by any road, Myrddraal and Trollocs will be on us before we have gone ten miles. And just at this point we hear of a threat to the Eye of the World, not from one source, but three, each seeming independent of the others. The Pattern is forcing our path. The Pattern still weaves itself around you three, but what hand now sets the warp, and what hand controls the shuttle? Has the Dark Ones prison weakened enough for him to exert that much control?" "Theres no need for that kind of talk!" Nynaeve said sharply. "Youll only frighten them." "But not you?" Moiraine asked. "It frightens me. Well, perhaps you are right. Fear cannot be allowed to affect our course. Whether this is a trap or a timely warning, we must do what we must, and that is to reach the Eye of the World quickly. The Green Man must know of this threat." Rand gave a start. The Green Man? The others stared, too, all but Loial, whose broad face looked worried. "I cannot even risk stopping in Tar Valon for help," Moiraine continued. "Time traps us. Even if we could ride out of the city unhindered, it would take many weeks to reach the Blight, and I fear we no longer have weeks." light!" Rand heard himself echoed in a chorus, but Moiraine ignored them all. "The Pattern presents a crisis, and at the same time a way to surmount it. If I did not know it was impossible, I could almost believe the Creator is taking a hand. There is a way." She smiled as if at a private joke, and turned to Loial. "There was an Ogier grove here at Caemlyn, and a Waygate. The New City now spreads out over where the grove once stood, so the Waygate must be inside the walls. I know not many Ogier learn the Ways now, but one who has a Talent and learns the old Songs of Growing must be drawn to such knowledge, even if he believes it will never be used. Do you know the Ways, Loial?" The Ogier shifted his feet uneasily. "I do, Aes Sedai, but - " "Can you find the path to Fal Dara along the Ways?" "Ive never heard of Fal Dara," Loial said, sounding relieved. "In the days of the Trolloc Wars it was known as Mafal Dadaranell. Do you know that name?" "I know it," Loial said reluctantly, "but - " "Then you can find the path for us," Moiraine said. "A curious turn, indeed. When we can neither stay nor leave by any ordinary means, I learn of a threat to the Eye, and in the same place there is one who can take us there in days. Whether it is the Creator, or fate, or even the Dark One, the Pattern has chosen our path for us." "No!" Loial said, an emphatic rumble like thunder. Everyone turned to look at him and he blinked under the attention, but there was nothing hesitant about his words. "If we enter the Ways, we will all die - or be swallowed by the Shadow." 