 Toggle navigationHomeLatest UpdateAdventureChristianFantasyHistoricalHorrorHumorousMysteryRomanceScience FictionThrillerWesternYoung AdultTop BooksPreySphereBlack RoseThe Great Train RobberyBlue DahliaCarnal InnocenceDance Upon the AirHigh NoonLawlessSacred SinsTributeFace the FireHolding the DreamA Man for AmandaAll the PossibilitiesNextThe Dragon Reborn 25 () 25 (Crescent Moon and Stars) Questions Egwene lay across Nynaeves bed, chin in her hands, watching Nynaeve pace back and forth. Elayne sprawled in front of the fireplace, which was still full of the ashes of last nights fire. Yet again Elayne was studying the list of names Verin had produced, patiently reading every word one more time. The other pages, the list of terangreal, sat on the table; after one shocked reading they had not discussed that one further, though they had talked of everything else. And argued, too. Egwene stifled a yawn. It was only the middle of the morning, but none of them had gotten much sleep. They had had to be up early. For the kitchens, and breakfast. For other things that she refused to think about. The little sleep she herself had managed had been filled with unpleasant dreams. Maybe Anaiya could help me understand them, those that need understanding, but... But what if she is Black Ajah? After staring at every woman in that chamber last night, wondering which was Black Ajah, she was finding trust for anyone but her two companions hard to come by. But she did wish she had some way of interpreting those dreams. The nightmares about what had happened inside the terangreal last night were easy enough to understand, though they had made her wake up weeping. She had dreamed of the Seanchan, too, of women in dresses with lightning bolts woven on their breasts, collaring a long line of women who wore Great Serpent rings, forcing them to call lightning against the White Tower. That had started her awake in a cold sweat, but that had to be just a nightmare, too. And the dream about Whitecloaks binding her fathers hands. A nightmare brought on by homesickness, she supposed. But the others... She glanced at the other two women again. Elayne was still reading. Nynaeve still paced with that steady tread. There had been a dream of Rand, reaching for a sword that seemed to be made of crystal, never seeing the fine net dropping over him. And one of him kneeling in a chamber where a parched wind blew dust across the. floor, and creatures like the one on the Dragon banner, but much smaller, floated on that wind, and settled into his skin. There had been a dream of him walking down into a great hole in a black mountain, a hole filled with a reddish glare as from vast fires below, and even a dream of him confronting Seanchan. About that last, she was uncertain, but she knew the others had to mean something. Back when she had been sure she could trust Anaiya, back before she had left the Tower, before she learned the reality of the Black Ajah, a little cautious questioning of the Aes Sedai - done, oh, so carefully, so Anaiya would think it no more than the curiosity she showed about other things - had revealed that a Dreamers dreams about taveren were almost always significant, and the more strongly taveren, the more "almost always" becam But Mat and Perrin were taveren, too, and she had also dreamed of them. Odd dreams, even more difficult to understand than the dreams of Rand. Perrin with a falcon on his shoulder, and Perrin with a hawk. Only the hawk held a leash in her talons - Egwene was somehow convinced both hawk and falcon were female - and the hawk was trying to fasten it around Perrins neck. That made her shiver even now; she did not like dreams about leashes. And that dream of Perrin - with a beard! - leading a huge pack of wolves that stretched as far as the eye could see. Those about Mat had been even nastier. Mat, placing his own left eye on a balance scale. Mat, hanging by his neck from a tree limb. There had been a dream of Mat and Seanchan, too, but she was willing to dismiss that as a nightmare. It had to have been just a nightmare. Just like the one about Mat speaking the Old Tongue. That had to come from what she had heard during his Healing. She sighed, and the sigh turned into another yawn. She and the others had gone to his room after breakfast to see how he was, but he had not been there. He it probably well enough to go dancing. Light, now I will probably dream about him dancing with Seanchan! No more dreams, she told herself firmly. Not now. I will think about them when I am not so tired. She thought of the kitchens, of the midday meal soon to come, and then supper, and breakfast again tomorrow, and pots and cleaning and scrubbing going on forever. If I am ever not tired again. Shifting her position on the bed, she looked at her friends again. Elayne still had her eyes on the list of names. Nynaeves steps had slowed. Any moment now, Nynaeve will say it again. Any moment. Nynaeve came to a halt staring down at Elayne. "Put those away. We have been over them twenty times, and there isnt a word that helps. Verin gave us rubbish. The question is, was it all she had, or did she give us rubbish on purpose?" As expected. Maybe half an hour till she says it again. Egwene frowned down at her hands, glad she could not see them clearly. The Great Serpent ring looked - out of place - on hands all wrinkled from long immersion in hot, soapy water. "Knowing their names helps," Elayne said, still reading. "Knowing what they look like helps." "You know very well what I mean," Nynaeve snapped. Egwene sighed and folded her arms in front of her, rested her chin on them. When she had come out of Sheriams study that morning, with the sun still not even a glint on the horizon, Nynaeve had been waiting with a candle in the cold, dark hall. She had not been seeing very clearly, but she was sure Nynaeve had looked ready to chew stone. And knowing chewing stones would not change anything in the next few minutes. That was why she was so irritable. Shes as touchy about her pride as any man I ever met. But she should not take it out on Elayne and me. Light, if Elayne can stand it, she should be able to. She isnt the Wisdom anymore. Elayne hardly appeared to notice whether Nynaeve was irritable or not. She frowned into the distance thoughtfully. "Liandrin was the only Red. All the other Ajahs lost two each." "Oh, do be quiet, child," Nynaeve said. Elayne wiggled her left hand to display her Great Serpent ring, gave Nynaeve a meaningful look, and went right on. "No two were born in the same city, and no more than two in any one country. Amico Nagoyin was the youngest, only four years older than Egwene and I. Joiya Byir could be our grandmother." Egwene did not like it that one of the Black Ajah shared her daughters name. Fool girl! People sometimes have the same name, and you never had daughter. It wasnt real! "And what does that tell us?" Nynaeves voice was too calm; she was ready to explode like a wagon full of fireworks. "What secrets have you found in it that I missed? I am getting old and blind, after all!" "It tells us it is all too neat," Elayne said calmly. "What chance that thirteen women chosen solely because they were Darkfriends would be so neatly arrayed across age, across nations, across Ajahs? Shouldnt there be perhaps three Reds, or four born in Cairhien, or just two the same age, if it was all chance? They had women to choose from or they could not have chosen so random a pattern. There are still Black Ajah in the Tower, or elsewhere we dont know about. It must mean that." Nynaeve gave her braid one ferocious tug. "Light! I think you may be right. You did find secrets I couldnt. Light, I was hoping they all went with Liandrin." "We do not even know that she is their leader," Elayne said. "She could have been ordered to... to dispose of us." Her mouth twisted. "I am afraid I can only think of one reason for them to go to such lengths to spread everything out so, to avoid any pattern except a lack of pattern. I think it means there is a pattern of some kind to the Black Ajah." "If theres a pattern," Nynaeve said firmly, "we will find it. Elayne, if watching your mother run her court taught you to think like this, Im glad you watched closely." Elaynes answering smile made a dimple in her cheek. Egwene eyed the older woman carefully. It seemed Nynaeve was finally ready to stop being a bear with a sore tooth. She raised her head. "Unless they want us to think theyre hiding a pattern, so we will waste our time hunting for it when there isnt one. I am not saying there isnt; I am only saying we do not know yet. Lets look for it, but I think we ought to look at other things, too, dont you?" "So you finally decided to rouse," Nynaeve said. "I thought you had gone to sleep." But she was still smiling. "She is right," Elayne said disgustedly. "I have built a bridge out of straw. Worse than straw. Wishes. Maybe you are right, too, Nynaeve. What use is this - this rubbish?" She snatched one paper out of the stack in front of her. "Rianna has black hair with a white streak above her left ear. If I am close enough to see that, its closer than I want to be." She grabbed another page. "Chesmal Emry is one of the most talented Healers anyone has seen in years. Light, could you imagine being Healed by one of the Black Ajah?" A third sheet. "Marillin Gemalphin is fond of cats and goes out of her way to help injured animals. Cats! Paah!" She scrabbled all the pages together, crumpling them in her fists. "It is useless rubbish." Nynaeve knelt beside her and gently pried her hands from around the papers. "Perhaps, and perhaps not." She smoothed the pages carefully on her breast. "You found in them something for us to look for. Perhaps we will find more, if we are persistent. And there is the other list." Both her eyes and Elaynes darted to Egwene, brown and blue Egwene avoided looking at the table where the other sheets lay. She did not want to think about them, but she could not avoid it. The list of terangreal had etched itself into her mind. Item. A rod of clear crystal, smooth and perfectly clear, one foot long and one inch in diameter. Use unknown. Last study made by Corianin Nedeal. Item. A figurine of an unclothed woman in alabaster, one hand tall. Use unknown. Last study made by Corianin Nedeal. Item. A disc, apparently of simple iron yet untouched by rust, three inches in diameter, finely engraved on both sides with a tight spiral. Use unknown. Last study made by Corianin Nedeal. Item. Too many items, and more than half the "use unknowns" last studied by Corianin Nedeal. Thirteen of them, to be exact. Egwene shivered. Its getting so I do not even like to think of that number. The knowns on the list were fewer, not all of any apparent real use, but hardly more comforting, as she saw it. A wooden carving of a hedgehog, no bigger than the last joint of a mans thumb. Such a simple thing, and surely harmless. Any woman who tried to channel through it went to sleep. Half a day of peaceful, dreamless sleep, but it was too close not to make her skin crawl. Three more had to do with sleep in some way. It was almost a relief to read of a fluted rod of black stone, a full pace in length, that produced balefire, with the notation DANGEROUS AND ALMOST IMPOSSIBLE TO CONTROL writ so strong in Verins hand that it tore the paper in two places. Egwene still had no idea what balefire was, but though it surely sounded dangerous if anything ever did, it just as surely had nothing to do Corianin Nedeal or dreams. Nynaeve carried the smoothedout pages to the table and set them down. She hesitated before spreading the others out and running her finger down one page, then the next. "Heres one Mat would enjoy," she said in a voice much too light and airy. "Item. A carved cluster of six spotted dice, joined at the corners, less than two inches across. Use unknown, save that channeling through it seems to suspend chance in some way, or twist it." She began to read aloud." Tossed coins presented the same face every time, and in one test landed balanced on edge one hundred times in a row. One thousand tosses of the dice produced five crowns one thousand times. " She gave a forced laugh. "Mat would love that." Egwene sighed and got to her feet, walked stiffly to the fireplace. Elayne scrambled up, watching as silently as Nynaeve. Pushing her sleeve as far up her arm as it would go, Egwene reached carefully up the chimney. Her fingers touched wool on the smoke shelf, and she pulled out a wadded, singed stocking with a hard lump in the toe. She brushed a smear of soot from her arm, then took the stocking to the table and shook it out. The twisted ring of striped, flecked stone spun across the tabletop and fell flat atop a page of the terangreal list. For a few moments they just stared at it. "Perhaps," Nynaeve said finally, "Verin simply missed the fact that so many of them were last studied by Corianin." She did not sound as if she really believed it. Elayne nodded, but doubtfully. "I saw her walking in the rain once, soaking wet, and took a cloak to her. She was so wrapped up in whatever she was thinking, I do not believe she knew it was raining until I put the cloak around her shoulders. She could have missed it." "Maybe," Egwene said. "If she did not, she had to know Id notice as soon as I read the list. I do not know. Sometimes I think Verin notices more than she lets on. I just do not know." "So theres Verin to suspect," Elayne sighed. "If she is Black Ajah, then they know exactly what we are doing. And Alanna." She gave Egwene an uncertain, sidelong look. Egwene had told them everything. Except what happened inside the terangreal during her testing; she could not bring herself to talk about that, any more than Nynaeve or Elayne could tell of their testings. Everything that happened in the testing chamber, what Sheriam had said about the terrible weakness conferred by the ability to channel, every word Verin had said, whether it seemed important or not. The one part they had had trouble accepting was Alanna; Aes Sedai just did not do things like that. No one in her right mind did anything like that, but Aes Sedai least of all. Egwene glowered at them, almost hearing them say it. "Aes Sedai are not supposed to lie, either, but Verin and the Mother seem awfully close with what they tell us. They are not supposed to be Black Ajah." "I like Alanna." Nynaeve tugged her braid, then shrugged. "Oh, very well. Perha- That is, she did behave oddly." "Thank you," Egwene said, and Nynaeve gave her an acknowledging nod as if she had heard no sarcasm. "In any case, the Amyrlin knows of it, and she can keep an eye on Alanna far more easily than we can." "What about Elaida and Sheriam?" Egwene asked. "I have never been able to like Elaida," Elayne said, "but I cannot truly believe she is Black Ajah. And Sheriam? Its impossible." Nynaeve snorted. "It should be impossible for any of them. When we do find them, there is nothing says theyll all be women we do not like. But I dont mean to put suspicion - not this kind of suspicion! - on any woman. We need more to go on than that they might have seen something they shouldnt." Egwene nodded agreement as quickly as Elayne, and Nynaeve went on: "We will tell the Amyrlin that much, and put no more weight to it than it deserves. If she ever looks in on us as she said she would. If you are with us when she comes, Elayne, remember she does not know about you." "I am not likely to forget it," Elayne said fervently. "But we should have some other way to get word to her. My mother would have planned it better." "Not if she could not trust her messengers," Nynaeve said. "We will wait. Unless you two think one of us should have a talk with Verin? No one would think that remarkable." Elayne hesitated, then gave her head a small shake. Egwene was quicker and more vigorous with hers; slip of the mind or not, Verin had left out too much to be trusted. "Good." Nynaeve sounded more than satisfied. "I am just as pleased we cannot talk to the Amyrlin when we choose. This way we make our own decisions, act when and as we decide, without her directing our every step." Her hand ran down the pages listing stolen terangreal as if she were reading it again, then closed on the striped stone ring. "And the first decision concerns this. Its the first thing we have seen that has any real connection to Liandrin and the others." She frowned at the ring, then took a deep breath. "I am going to sle Egwene did not hesitate before taking the ring out of Nynaeves hand. She wanted to hesitate - she wanted to keep her hands by her sides - but she did not, and she was pleased. "I am the one they say might be a Dreamer. I do not know whether that gives me any advantage, but Verin said its dangerous using this. Whichever of us uses it, she needs any advantage she can find." Nynaeve gripped her braid and opened her mouth as if to protest. When she finally spoke, though, it was to say, "Are you sure, Egwene? We do not even know if you are a Dreamer, and I can channel more strongly than you. I still think I - " Egwene cut her off. "You can channel more strongly if you are angry. Can you be sure youll be angry in a dream? Will you have time to become angry before you need to channel? Light, we dont even know that anyone can channel in a dream. If one of us has to do it - and you are right; it is the only connection we have - it should be me. Maybe I really am a Dreamer. Besides, Verin did give it to me." Nynaeve looked as if she wanted to argue, but at last she gave a grudging nod. "Very well. But Elayne and I will be there. I do not know what we can do, but if anything goes wrong, perhaps we can wake you up, or... We will be there." Elayne nodded, too. Now that she had their agreement, Egwene felt a queasiness in the pit of her stomach. I talked them into it. I wish I did not want them to talk me out of it. She became aware of a woman standing in the doorway, a woman in novice white, with her hair in long braids. "Did no one ever teach you to knock, Else?" Nynaeve said. Egwene hid the stone ring inside her fist. She had the strangest feeling that Else had been staring at it. "I have a message for you," Else said calmly. Her eyes studied the table, with all the papers scattered on it, then the three women around it. "From the Amyrlin." Egwene exchanged wondering looks with Nynaeve and Elayne. "Well, what is it?" Nynaeve demanded . Else arched an eyebrow in amusement. "The belongings left behind by Liandrin and the others were put in the third storeroom on the right from the main stairs in the second basement under the library." She glanced at the papers on the table again and left, neither hurrying nor moving slowly. Egwene felt as if she could not breathe. Were afraid to trust anybody, and the Amyrlin decides to trust Else Grinwell of all women? "That fool girl cannot be trusted not to blab to anyone wholl listen!" Nynaeve started for the door. Egwene grabbed up her skirts and darted past her at a run. Her shoes skidded on the tiles of the gallery, but she caught a glimpse of white vanishing down the nearest ramp and dashed after it. She must be running, too, to be so far ahead already. Why is she running? The flash of white was already disappearing down another ramp. Egwene followed. A woman turned to face her at the foot of the ramp, and Egwene stopped in confusion. Whoever she was, this was certainly not Else. All in silver and white silk, she sparked feelings Egwene had never had before. She was taller, more beautiful by far, and the look in her black eyes made Egwene feel small, scrawny, and none too clean. She can probably channel more of the Power than I can, too. Light, she is probably smarter than all three of us put together on top of it. It isnt fair for one woman to - Abruptly she realized the way her thoughts were going. Her cheeks reddened, and she gave herself a shake. She had never felt - less - than any other woman before, and she was not about to start now. "Bold," the woman said. "You are bold to go running about so, alone, where so many murders have been done." She sounded almost pleased. Egwene drew herself up and straightened her dress hurriedly, hoping the other woman would not notice, knowing she did, wishing the woman had not seen her running like a child. Stop that! "Pardon, but I am looking for a novice who came this way, I think. She has large, dark eyes and dark hair in braids. Shes plump, and pretty in a way. Did you see which way she went?" The tall woman looked her up and down in an amused way. Egwene could not be sure, but she thought the woman might have glanced a moment at the clenched fist by her side, where she still held the stone ring. "I do not think you will catch up to her. I saw her, and she was running quite fast. I suspect she is far away from here by now." "Aes Sedai," Egwene began, but she was given no chance to ask which way Else had gone. Something that might have been anger, or annoyance, flashed through those black eyes. "I have taken up enough time with you for now. I have more important matters to see to. Leave me." She gestured back the way Egwene had come. So strong was the command in her voice that Egwene turned and was three steps up the ramp before she realized what she was doing. Bristling, she spun back. Aes Sedai or no, I - The gallery was empty. Frowning, she dismissed the nearest doors - no one lived in those rooms, except possibly mice - and ran down the ramp, peered both ways, followed the curve of the gallery with her eyes all the way around. She even peered over the rail, down into the small Garden of the Accepted, and studied the other galleries, higher as well as lower. She saw two Accepted in their banded dresses, one Faolain and the other a woman she knew by sight if not name. But there was no woman in silver and white anywhere. >(Female Silhouettes) Behind a Lock Shaking her head, Egwene walked back to the doors she had dismissed. She had to go somewhere. Inside the first, the few furnishings were shapeless mounds under dusty cloths, and the air seemed stale, as if the door had not been opened in some time. She grimaced; there were mouse tracks in the dust on the floor. But no others. Two more doors, opened hastily, showed the same thing. It was no surprise. There were many more empty rooms than occupied in the Accepteds galleries. When she pulled her head out of the third room, Nynaeve and Elayne were coming down the ramp behind her with no particular haste. "Is she hiding?" Nynaeve asked in surprise. "In there?" "I lost her." Egwene peered both ways along the curving gallery again. Where did she go? She did not mean Else. "If I had thought Else could outrun you," Elayne said with a smile, "Id have chased her, too, but she has always looked too plump for running to me." Her smile was worried, though. "We will have to find her later," Nynaeve said, "and make sure she knows to keep her mouth shut. How could the Amyrl "I thought I was right on top of her," Egwene said slowly, "but it was someone else. Nynaeve, I turned my back for a moment, and she was gone. Not Else - I never even saw her! - the woman I thought was Else at first. She was just - gone, and I dont know where." Elaynes breath caught. "One of the Soulless?" She looked around hastily, but the gallery was still empty except for the three of them. "Not her," Egwene said firmly. "She -" I am not going to tell them she made me feel six years old, with a torn dress, a dirty face, and a runny nose. "She was no Gray Man. She was tall and striking, with black eyes and black hair. Youd notice her in a crowd of a thousand. I have never seen her before, but I think she is Aes Sedai. She must be." Nynaeve waited, as though for more, then said impatiently, "If you see her again, point her out to me. If you think theres cause. Weve no time to stand here talking. I mean to see what is in that storeroom before Else has a chance to tell the wrong person about it. Maybe they were careless. Lets not give them a chance to correct it, if they were." As she fell in beside Nynaeve, with Elayne on the other side, Egwene realized she still had the stone ring - Corianin Nedeals terangreal - clutched in her fist. Reluctantly, she tucked it into her pouch and pulled the drawstrings tight. As long as I dont go to sleep with the bloody - But thats what I am planning, isnt it? But that was for tonight, and no use worrying about it now. As they made their way through the Tower, she kept an eye out for the woman in silver and white. She was not sure why she was relieved not to see her. I am a grown woman, and quite capable, thank you. Still, she was just as glad that no one they encountered looked even remotely like her. The more she thought of the woman, the more she felt there was something - wrong - about her. Light, I am starting to see the Black Ajah under my bed. Only, maybe they are under the bed. The library stood a little apart from the tall, thick shaft of the White Tower proper, its pale stone heavily streaked with blue, and it looked much like crashing waves frozen at their climax. Those waves loomed as large as a palace in the morning light, and Egwene knew they certainly contained as many rooms as one, but all those rooms - those below the odd corridors in the upper levels, where Verin had her chambers - were filled with shelves, and the shelves filled with books, manuscripts, papers, scrolls, maps, and charts, collected from every nation over the course of three thousand years. Not even the great libraries in Tear and Cairhien held so many. The librarians - Brown sisters all - guarded those shelves, and guarded the doors as closely, to make sure not a scrap of paper left unless they knew who took it and why. But it was not to one of the guarded entrances that Nynaeve led Egwene and Elayne. Around the foundations of the library, lying flat to the ground in the shade of tall pecan trees, were other doors, both large and small. Laborers sometimes needed access to the storerooms beneath, and the librarians did not approve of sweating men tracking through their preserve. Nynaeve pulled up one of those, no bigger than the front door of a farmhouse, and motioned the others down a steep flight of stairs descending into darkness. When she let it down behind them, all light vanished. Egwene opened herself to saidar - it came so smoothly that she barely realized what she was doing - and channeled a trickle of the Power that flooded through her. For a moment the mere feel of that rush surging within her threatened to overwhelm other sensations. A small ball of bluishwhite light appeared, balanced in the air above her hand. She took a deep breath and reminded herself of why she was walking stiffly. It was a link to the rest of the world. The feel of her linen shift against her skin returned, of woolen stockings, and her dress. With a small pang of regret, she banished the desire to pull in more, to let saidar absorb her. Elayne made a glowing sphere for herself at the same time, and the pair provided more light than two lanterns would have. "It feels so - wonderful, doesnt it?" she murmured. "Be careful," Egwene said. "I am." Elayne sighed. "It just feels... I will be careful." "This way," Nynaeve told them sharply and brushed by to lead them down. She did not go too far ahead. She was not angry, and had to use the light the other two provided. The dusty side corridor by which they had entered, lined with wooden doors set in gray stone walls, took nearly a hundred paces to reach the much wider main hall that ran the length of the library. Their lights showed footprints overlaying footprints in the dust, most from the large boots men would wear and most themselves faded by dust. The ceiling was higher here, and some of the doors nearly large enough for a barn. The main stairs at the end, half the width of the hall, were where large things were brought down. Another flight beside them led deeper. Nynaeve took it without a pause. Egwene followed quickly. The bluish light washed out Elaynes face, but Egwene thought it still looked paler than it should. We could scream our lungs out down here, and no one would hear a whimper. She felt a lightning bolt form, or the potential for one, and nearly stumbled. She had never before channeled two flows at once; it did not seem difficult at all. The main hall of the second basement was much like the first level, wide and dusty but with a lower ceiling. Nynaeve hurried to the third door on the right and stopped. The door was not large, but its rough wooden planks somehow gave an impression of thickness. A round iron lock hung from a length of stout chain that was drawn tight through two thick staples, one in the door, the other cemented into the wall. Lock and chain alike had the look of newness; there was almost no dust on them. "A lock!" Nynaeve jerked at it; the chain had no give, and neither did the lock. "Did either of you see a lock anywhere else?" She pulled it again, then flung it against the door hard enough to bounce. The bang echoed down the hall. "I did not see one other locked door!" She pounded a fist on the rough wood. "Not one!" "Calm yourself," Elayne said. "There is no need to throw a tantrum. I could open the lock myself, if I could see how the inside of it works. We will open it some way." "I do not want to calm myself," Nynaeve snapped. "I want to be furious! I want...!" Letting the rest of the tirade fade from her awareness, Egwene touched the chain. She had learned more things than how to make lightning bolts since leaving Tar Valon. One was an affinity for metal. That came from Earth, one of the Five Powers few women had much strength in - the other was Fire - but she had it, and she could feel the chain, feel inside the chain, feel the tiniest bits of the cold metal, the patterns they made. The Power within her quivered in time to the vib "Move out of my way, Egwene." She looked around and saw Nynaeve wrapped in the glow of saidar and holding a prybar so close in color to the bluewhite of the light that it was nearly invisible. Nynaeve frowned at the chain, muttered something about leverage, and the prybar was suddenly twice as long. "Move, Egwene." Egwene moved. Thrusting the end of the prybar through the chain, Nynaeve braced it, then heaved with all her strength. The chain snapped like thread, Nynaeve gasped and stumbled halfway across the hall in surprise, and the prybar clattered to the floor. Straightening, Nynaeve stared from the bar to the chain in amazement. The prybar vanished. "I think I did something to the chain," Egwene said. And I with I knew what. "You could have said something," Nynaeve muttered. She pulled the rest of the chain from the staples and threw open the door. "Well? Are you going to stand there all day?" The dusty room inside was perhaps ten paces square, but it held only a heap of large bags made of heavy brown cloth, each stuffed full, tagged, and sealed with the Flame of Tar Valon. Egwene did not have to count them to know there were thirteen. She moved her ball of light to the wall and fastened it there; she was not certain how she did it, but when she took her hand away, the light remained. I keep learning how to do things without knowing what they are, she thought nervously. Elayne frowned at her as if considering, then hung her light on the wall, too. Watching, Egwene thought she saw what it was she had done. She learned it from me, but I just learned it from her. She shivered. Nynaeve went straight to tumbling the bags apart and reading the tags. "Rianna. Joiya Byir. These are what we are after." She examined the seal on one bag, then broke the wax and unwound the binding cords. "At least we know no ones been here before us." Egwene chose a bag and broke the seal without reading the name on the tag. She did not really want to know whose possessions she was searching. When she upended them onto the dusty floor, they proved to be mainly old clothes and shoes, with a few ripped and crumpled papers of the sort that might hide under the wardrobe of a woman who was not too assiduous in seeing her rooms cleaned. "I dont see anything useful here. A cloak that would not do for rags. A torn half of a map of some city. Tear, it says in the corner. Three stockings that need darning." She stuck her finger through the hole in a velvet slipper that had no mate and waggled it at the others. "This one left no clues behind." "Amico did not leave anything, either," Elayne said glumly, tossing clothes aside with both hands. "It might as well be rags. Wait, heres a book. Whoever bundled these up must have been in a hurry to toss in a book. Customs and Ceremonies of the Tairen Court. The cover is torn off, but the librarians will want it anyway." The librarians certainly would. No one threw away books, no matter how badly damaged. "Tear," Nynaeve said in flat voice. Kneeling amid the clutter from the bag she was searching, she retrieved a scrap of paper she had already thrown away. "A list of trading ships on the Erinin, with the dates they sailed from Tar Valon and the dates they were expected to arrive in Tear." "It could be coincidence," Egwene said slowly. "Perhaps," Nynaeve said. She folded the paper and tucked it up her sleeve, then broke the seal on another bag. When they finally finished, every bag searched twice and discarded rubbish heaped around the edges of the room, Egwene sat down on one of the empty bags, so engrossed that she barely noticed her own wince. Drawing up her knees, she studied the little collection they had made, all laid in a row. "It is too much," Elayne said. "There is too much of it." "Too much," Nynaeve agreed. There was a second book, a tattered, leatherbound volume entitled Observations on a Visit to Tear, with half its pages falling out. Caught in the lining of a badly torn cloak in Chesmal Emrys bag, where it might have slipped through a rip in one of the pockets of the cloak, had been another list of trading vessels. It said no more than the names, but they were all on the other list, too, and according to that, those vessels all had sailed in the early morning after the night Liandrin and the others left the Tower. There was a hastily sketched plan of some large building, with one room faintly noted as "Heart of the Stone," and a page with the names of five inns, the word "Tear" heading the page badly smudged but barely readable. There was... "Theres something from everyone," Egwene muttered. "Every one of them left something pointing to a journey to Tear. How could anyone miss seeing it, if they looked? Why did the Amyrlin say nothing of this?" "The Amyrlin," Nynaeve said bitterly, "keeps her own counsel, and what matter if we burn for it!" She drew a deep breath, and sneezed from the dust they had stirred up. "What worries me is that I am looking at bait." "Bait?" Egwene said. But she saw it as soon as she spoke. ed. "Bait. A trap. Or maybe a diversion. But trap or diversion, its so obvious no one could be taken in by it." "Unless they do not care whether whoever found this saw the trap or not." Uncertainty tinged Elaynes voice. "Or perhaps they meant it to be so obvious that whoever found it would dismiss Tear immediately." Egwene wished she could not believe that the Black Ajah could be as sure of themselves as that. She realized she was gripping her pouch in her fingers, running her thumb along the twisted curve of the stone ring inside. "Perhaps they meant to taunt whoever found it," she said softly. "Perhaps they thought whoever found this would rush headlong after them, in anger and pride." Did they know we would find it? Do they see us that way? "Burn me!" Nynaeve growled. It was a shock; Nynaeve never used such language. For a time they simply stared in silence at the array. "What do we do now?" Elayne asked finally. Egwene squeezed the ring hard. Dreaming was closely linked to Foretelling; the future, and events in other places, could appear in a Dreamers dreams. "Maybe we will know after tonight." Nynaeve looked at her, silent and expressionless; then chose out a dark skirt that seemed not to have too many holes and rips, and began bundling in it the things they had found. "For now," she said, "we will take this back to my room and hide it. I think we just have time, if we dont want to be la Late, Egwene thought. The longer she held the ring through her pouch, the greater the urgency she felt. Were already a step behind, but maybe we wont be too late. PROLOGUE 1 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 20 21 22 23 24 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 House, so it was me that the Guild held responsible 42 43 44 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56Back to Table of contentTOP AUTHORSTerry PratchettDarren ShanSamantha YoungGav ThorpePamela PalmerGene WolfeF. Paul WilsonAmanda MaxlynJodi Ellen MalpasJill ShalvisSusan HillSherrilyn KenyonMegan ShepherdColleen GleasonKylie ScottCourtney SummersElizabeth KostovaYanna LeeTobias S. BuckellJennifer EstepGeorgia CatesEmma ChaseJ.C. ReedC.J. EllissonBrent WeeksKendare BlakeSam SykesMeg CabotNicole Peeler Philip AthansLauren KateS.D. PerryMax BrooksFritz LeiberMaryJanice DavidsonJames S.A. CoreyR.K. LilleyMolly McAdamsRobert McCammonKatja Millay < Copyright © novelfull thefreeonlinenovel.com All Rights Reserved.