 Toggle navigationHomeLatest UpdateAdventureChristianFantasyHistoricalHorrorHumorousMysteryRomanceScience FictionThrillerWesternYoung AdultTop BooksPreySphereBlack RoseThe Great Train RobberyBlue DahliaCarnal InnocenceDance Upon the AirHigh NoonLawlessSacred SinsTributeFace the FireHolding the DreamA Man for AmandaAll the PossibilitiesNextThe Dragon Reborn 2 () 2 (Dragons Fang) Saidin Face expressionless, the Tuathaan woman stared at the banner as it drooped again, then turned her attention to those around the fire. Especially the one reading, the one half again as tall as Perrin and twice a big. "You have an Ogier with you. I would not have thought..." She shook her head. "Where is Moiraine Sedai?" It seemed the Dragon banner might as well not exist as far as she was concerned. Perrin gestured coward the rough but that stood furthest up the slope, at the far end of the bowl. With walls and sloping roof of unpeeled logs, it was the largest, though not very big at that. Perhaps just barely large enough to be called a cabin rather than a hut. "That one is hers. Hers and Lans. He is her Warder. When you have had something hot to drink - " "No. I must speak to Moiraine." He was not surprised. All the women who came insisted on speaking to Moiraine immediately, and alone. The news that Moiraine chose to share with the rest of them did not always seem very important, but the women held the intensity of a hunter stalking the last rabbit in the world for his starving family. The halffrozen old beggar woman had refused blankets and a plate of hot stew and tramped up to Moiraines hut, barefoot in stillfalling snow. Leya slid from her saddle and handed the reins up to Perrin. "Will you see that she is fed?" She patted the piebald mares nose. "Piesa is not used to carrying me over s "Fodder is scarce, still," Perrin told her, "but shell have what we can give her." Leya nodded, and went hurrying away up the slope without another word, holding her bright green skirts up, the blueembroidered red cloak swaying behind her. Perrin swung down from his saddle, exchanging a few words with the men who came from the fires to take the horses. He gave his bow to the one who took Stepper. No, except for one raven, they had seen nothing but the mountains and the Tuathaan woman. Yes, the raven was dead. No, she had told them nothing of what was happening outside the mountains. No, he had no idea whether they would be leaving soon. Or ever, he added to himself. Moiraine had kept them there all winter. The Shienarans did not think she gave the orders, not here, but Perrin knew that Aes Sedai somehow always seemed to get their way. Especially Moiraine. Once the horses were led away to the rude log stable, the riders went to warm themselves. Perrin tossed his cloak back over his shoulders and held his hands out to the flames gratefully. The big kettle, Baerlon work by the look of it, gave off smells that had been making his mouth water for some time already. Someone had been lucky hunting today, it seemed, and lumpy roots circled another fire close by, giving off an aroma faintly like turnips as they roasted. He wrinkled his nose and concentrated on the stew. More and more he wanted meat above anything else. The woman in mens clothes was peering toward Leya, who was just disappearing into Moiraines hut. "What do you see, Min?" he asked. She came to stand beside him, her dark eyes troubled. He did not understand why she insisted on breeches instead of skirts. Perhaps it was because he knew her, but he could not see how anyone could look at her and see a toohandsome youth instead of a pretty young woman. "The Tinker woman is going to die," she said softly, eyeing the others near the fires. None was close enough to hear. He was still, thinking of Leyas gentle face. Ah, Light! Tinkers never harm anyone! He felt cold despite the warmth of the fire. Burn me, I wish Id never asked. Even the few Aes Sedai who knew of it did not understand what Min did. Sometimes she saw images and auras surrounding people, and sometimes she even knew what they meant. Masuto came to stir the stew with a long wood spoon. The Shienaran eyed them, then laid a finger alongside his long nose and grinned widely before he left. "Blood and ashes!" Min muttered. "Hes probably decided we are sweethearts murmuring to each other by the fire." "Are you sure?" Perrin asked. She raised her eyebrows at him, and he hastily added, "About Leya." "Is that her name? I wish I didnt know. It always makes it worse, knowing and not being able to... Perrin, I saw her own face floating over her shoulder, covered in blood, eyes staring. Its never any clearer than that." She shivered and rubbed her hands together briskly. "Light, but I wish I saw more happy things. All the happy things seem to have gone away." He opened his mouth to suggest warning Leya, then closed it again. There was never any doubt about what Min saw and knew, for good or bad. If she was certain, it happened. "Blood on her face," he muttered. "Does that mean shell die by violence?" He winced that he said it so easily. But what can I do? If I tell Leya, if I make her believe somehow, shell live her last days in fear, and it will change nothing. Min gave a short nod. If shes going to die by violence, it could mean an attack on the camp. But there were scouts out every day, and guards set day and night. And Moiraine had the camp warded, so she said; no creature of the Dark One would see it unless he walked right into it. He thought of the wolves. No! The scouts would find anyone or anything trying to approach the camp. "Its a long way back to her people," he said half to himself. "Tinkers wouldnt have brought their wagons any further than the foothills. Anything could happen between here and there." Min nodded sadly. "And there arent enough of us to spare even one guard for her. Even if it would do any good." She had told him; she had tried warning people about bad things when, at six or seven, she had first realized not everyone could see what she saw. She would not say more, but he had the impression that her warnings had only made matters worse, when they were believed at all. It took some doing to believe in Mins viewings until you had proof. "When?" he said. The word was cold in his ears, and hard as tool steel. I cant do anything ahout Leya, but maybe I can figure out whether were going to be attacked. As soon as the word was out of his mouth, she threw up her hands. She kept her voice down, though. "It isnt like that. I can never tell when something is going to happen. I only know it will, if I even know what I see means. You dont understand. The seeing doesnt come when I want it to, and neither does knowing. It just happens, and sometimes I know. Something. A little bit. It just happens." He tried to get a soothing word in, but she was letting it all out in a flood he could not stem. "I can see things around a man one day and not the next, or the other way round. Most of the time, I dont see anything around anyone. Aes Sedai always have images around them, of course, and Warders, though its always harder to say what it means with them than with anyone else." She gave Perrin a searching look, half squinting. "A few others always do, too." "Dont tell me what you see when you look at me," he said harshly, then shrugged his heavy shoulders. Even as a child he had been bigger than most of the others, and he had quickly learned how easy it was to hurt people by accident when you were bigger than they. It had made him cautious and careful, and regretful of his anger when he let it show. "I am sorry, Min. I shouldnt have snapped at you. I did not mean to hurt you." a surprised look. "You didnt hurt me. Blessed few people want to know what I see. The Light knows, I would not, if it were someone else who could do it." Even the Aes Sedai had never heard of anyone else who had her gift. "Gift" was how they saw it, even if she did not. "Its just that I wish there were something I could do about Leya. I couldnt stand it the way you do, knowing and not able to do anything." "Strange," she said softly, "how you seem to care so much about the Tuathaan. They are utterly peaceful, and I always see viol He turned his head away, and she cut off abruptly. "Tuathaan?" came a rumbling voice, like a huge bumblebee. "What about the Tuathaan?" The Ogier came to join them at the fire, marking his place in his book with a finger the size of a large sausage. A thin streamer of tabac smoke rose from the pipe in his other hand. His highnecked coat of dark brown wool buttoned up to the neck, and flared at the knee over turneddown boot tops. Perrin stood hardly as high as his chest. Loials face had frightened more than one person, with his nose broad enough almost to be called a snout and his toowide mouth. His eyes were the size of saucers, with thick eyebrows that dangled like mustaches almost to his cheeks, and his ears poked up through long hair in ruffed points. Some who had never seen an Ogier took him for a Trolloc, though Trollocs were as much legend to most of them as Ogier. Loials wide smile wavered and his eyes blinked as he became aware of having interrupted them. Perrin wondered how anyone could be frightened of the Ogier for long. Yet some of the old stories call them fierce, and implacable as enemies. He could not believe it. Ogier were enemies to no one. Min told Loial of Leyas arrival, but not of what she had seen. She was usually closemouthed about those seeings, especially when they were bad. Instead, she added, "You should know how I feel, Loial, suddenly caught up by Aes Sedai and these Two Rivers folk." Loial made a noncommittal sound, but Min seemed to take it for agreement. "Yes," she said emphatically. "There I was, living my life in Baerlon as I liked it, when suddenly I was grabbed up by the scruff of the neck and jerked off to the Light knows where. Well, I might as well have been. My life has not been my own since I met Moiraine. And these Two Rivers farmboys." She rolled her eyes at Perrin, a wry twist to her mouth. "All I wanted was to live as I pleased, fall in love with a man I chose..." Her cheeks reddened suddenly, and she cleared her throat. "I mean to say, what is wrong with wanting to live your life without all this upheaval?" "Taveren," Loial began. Perrin waved at him to stop, but the Ogier could seldom be slowed, much less stopped, when one of his enthusiasms had him in its grip. He was accounted extremely hasty, by the Ogier way of looking at things. Loial pushed his book into a coat pocket and went on, gesturing with his pipe. "All of us, all of our lives, affect the lives of others, Min. As the Wheel of Time weaves us into the Pattern, the lifethread of each of us pulls and tugs at the lifethreads around us. Taveren are the same, only much, much more so. They tug at the entire Pattern - for a time, at least - forcing it to shape around them. The closer you are to them, the more you are affected personally. Its said that if you were in the same room with Artur Hawkwing, you could feel the Pattern rearranging itself. I dont know how true that is, but Ive read that it was. But it doesnt only work one way. Taveren themselves are woven to a tighter line than the rest of us, with fewer choices." Perrin grimaced. Bloody few of the ones that matter. Min tossed, her head. "I just wish they didnt have to be so... so bloody taveren all the time. Taveren tugging on one side, and Aes Sedai meddling on the other. What chance does a woman have?" Loial shrugged. "Very little, I suppose, as long as she stays close to taveren." "As if I had a choice," Min growled. "It was your good fortune - or misfortune, if you see it that way - to fall in with not one, but three taveren. Rand, Mat, and Perrin. I myself count it very good fortune, and would even if they werent my friends. I think I might even..." The Ogier looked at them, suddenly shy, his ears twitching. "Promise you will not laugh? I think I might write a book about it. I have been taking notes." Min smiled, a friendly smile, and Loials ears pricked back up again. "Thats wonderful," she told him. "But some of us feel as if were being danced about like puppets by these taveren." "I didnt ask for it," Perrin burst out. "I did not ask for it." She ignored him. "Is that what happened to you, Loial? Is that why you travel with Moiraine? I know you Ogier almost never leave your stedding. Did one of these taveren tug you along with him?" Loial became engrossed in a study of his pipe. "I just wanted to see the groves the Ogier planted," he muttered. "Just to see the groves." He glanced at Perrin as if asking for help, but Perrin only grinned. Lets see how the shoe nails onto your hoof. He did not know all of it, but he did know Loial had run away. He was ninety years old, but not yet old enough by Ogier standards to leave the stedding - going Outside, they called it - without the permission of the Elders . Ogier lived a very long time, as humans saw things. Loial said the Elders would not be best pleased when they put their hands on him again. He seemed intent on putting that moment off as long as possible. There was a stir among the Shienarans, men getting to their feet. Rand was coming out of Moiraines hut. Even at that distance Perrin could make him out clearly, a young man with reddish hair and gray eyes. He was of an age with Perrin, and would stand half a head taller if they were side by side, though Rand was more slender, if still broad across the shoulders. Embroidered golden thorns ran up the sleeves of his highcollared, red coat, and on the breast of his dark cloak stood the same creature as on the banner, the fourlegged serpent with the golden mane. Rand and he had grown up together as friends. Are we still friends? Can we be? Now? The Shienarans bowed as one, heads held up but hands to knees. "Lord Dragon," Uno called, "we stand ready. Honor to serve." Uno, who could hardly say a sentence without a curse, spoke now with the deepest respect. The others echoed him. "Honor to serve." Masema, who saw ill in everything, and whose eyes now shone with utter devotion; Ragan; all of them, awaiting a command if it were Rands pleasure to give one. From the slope Rand stared down at them a moment, then turned and disappeared into the trees. s been arguing with Moiraine again," Min said quietly. "All day, this time." Perrin was not surprised, yet he still felt a small shock. Arguing with an Aes Sedai. All the childhood tales came back to him. Aes Sedai, who made thrones and nations dance to their hidden strings. Aes Sedai, whose gift always had a hook in it, whose price was always smaller than you could believe, yet always turned out to be greater than you could imagine. Aes Sedai, whose anger could break the ground and summon lightning. Some of the stories were untrue, he knew now. And at the same time, t "I had better go to him," he said. "After they argue, he always needs someone to talk to." And aside from Moiraine and Lan, there were only the three of them - Min, Loial, and him - who did not stare at Rand as if he stood above kings. And of the three only Perrin knew him from before. He strode up the slope, pausing only to glance at the closed door of Moiraines hut. Leya would be in there, and Lan. The Warder seldom let himself get far from the Aes Sedais side. Rands much smaller but was a little lower down, well hidden in the trees, away from all the rest. He had tried living down among the other men, but their constant awe drove him off. He kept to himself, now. Too much to himself, to Perrins thinking. But he knew Rand was not headed to his hut now. Perrin hurried on to where one side of the bowlshaped valley suddenly became sheer cliff, fifty paces high and smooth except for tough brush clinging tenaciously here and there. He knew exactly where a crack in the gray rock wall lay, an opening hardly wider than his shoulders. With only a ribbon of lateafternoon light overhead, it was like walking down a tunnel. Half a mile the crack ran, abruptly opening out into a narrow vale, less than a mile long, its floor covered with rocks and boulders, and even the steep slopes were thickly forested with tall leatherleaf and pine and fir. Long shadows stretched away from the sun sitting on the mountaintops. The walls of this place were unbroken save for the crack, and as steep as if a giant axe had buried itself in the mountains. It could be even more easily defended by a few than the bowl, but it had neither stream nor spring. No one went there. Except Rand, after he argued with Moiraine. Rand stood not far from the entrance, leaning against the rough trunk of a leatherleaf, staring at the palms of his hands. Perrin knew that on each there was a heron, branded into the flesh. Rand did not move when Perrins boot scraped on stone. Suddenly Rand began to recite softly, never looking up from his hands. "Twice and twice shall he be marked, twice to live, and twice to die. Once the heron, to set his path. Twice the heron, to name him true. Once the Dragon, for remembrance lost. Twice the Dragon, for the price he must pay." With a shudder he tucked his hands under his arms. "But no Dragons, yet." He chuckled roughly. "Not yet." For a moment Perrin simply looked at him. A man who could channel the One Power. A man doomed to go mad from the taint on saidin, the male half of the True Source, and certain to destroy everything around him in his madness. A man - a thing! - everyone was taught to loathe and fear from childhood. Only... it was hard to stop seeing the boy he had grown up with. How do you just stop being somebodys friend? Perrin chose a small boulder with a flat top, and sat, waiting. After a while Rand turned his head to look at him. "Do you think Mat is all right? He looked so sick, the last I saw him." "He must be all right by now." He should be in Tar Valon, by now. Theyll Heal him, there. And Nynaeve and Egwene will keep him out of trouble. Egwene and Nynaeve, Rand and Mat and Perrin. All five from Emonds Field in the Two Rivers. Few people had come into the Two Rivers from outside, except for occasional peddlers, and merchants once a year to buy wool and tabac. Almost no one had ever left. Until the Wheel chose out its taveren, and five simple country folk could stay where they were no longer. Could be what they had been no longer. Rand nodded and was silent. "Lately," Perrin said, "I find myself wishing I was still a blacksmith. Do you... Do you wish you were still just a shepherd?" "Duty," Rand muttered. "Death is lighter than a feather, duty heavier than a mountain. Thats what they say in Shienar. The Dark One is stirring. The Last Battle is coming. And the Dragon Reborn has to face the Dark One in the Last Battle, or the Shadow will cover everything. The Wheel of Time broken. Every Age remade in the Dark Ones image. Theres only me." He began to laugh mirthlessly, his shoulders shaking. "I have the duty, because there isnt anybody else, now is there?" Perrin shifted uneasily. The laughter had a raw edge that made his skin crawl. "I understand you were arguing with Moiraine again. The same thing?" Rand drew a deep, ragged breath. "Dont we always argue about the same thing? Theyre down there, on Almoth Plain, and the Light alone knows where else. Hundreds of them. Thousands. They declared for the Dragon Reborn because I raised that banner. Because I let myself be called the Dragon. Because I could see no other choice. And theyre dying. Fighting, searching, and praying for the man who is supposed to lead them. Dying. And I sit here safe in the mountains all winter. I... I owe them... something." "You think I like it?" Perrin swung his head in irritation. ake whatever she says to you," Rand grated. "You never stand up to her." "Much good it has done you, standing up to her. You have argued all winter, and we have sat here like lumps all winter." "Because she is right." Rand laughed again, that chilling laugh. "The Light burn me, she is right. They are all split up into little groups all over the plain, all across Tarabon and Arad Doman. If I join any one of them, the Whitecloaks and the Domani army and the Taraboners will be on top of them like a duck on a beetle." Perrin almost laughed himself, in confusion. "If you agree with her, why in the Light do you argue all the time?" "Because I have to do something. Or Ill... Ill - burst like a rotted melon!" "Do what? If you listen to what she says - " Rand gave him no chance to say they would sit there forever. "Moiraine says! Moiraine says!" Rand jerked erect, squeezing his head between his hands. "Moiraine has something to say about everything! Moiraine says I mustnt go to the men who are dying in my name. Moiraine says Ill know what to do next because the Pattern will force me to it. Moiraine says! But she never says how Ill know. Oh, no! She doesnt know that." His hands fell to his sides, and he turned toward Perrin, head tilted and eyes narrowed. "Sometimes I feel as if Moiraine is putting me through my paces like a fancy Tairen stallion doing his steps. Do you ever feel that?" Perrin scrubbed a hand through his shaggy hair. "I... Whatever is pushing us, or pulling us, I know who "Baalzamon," Rand said softly. An ancient name for the Dark One. In the Trolloc tongue, it meant Heart of the Dark. "And I must face him, Perrin." His eyes closed in a grimace, half smile, half pain. "Light help me, half the time I want it to happen now, to be over and done with, and the other half... How many times can I manage to... Light, it pulls at me so. What if I cant... What if I..." The ground trembled. "Rand?" Perrin said worriedly. Rand shivered; despite the chill, there was sweat on his face. His eyes were still shut tight. "Oh, Light," he groaned, "it pulls so." Suddenly the ground heaved beneath Perrin, and the valley echoed with a vast rumble. It seemed as if the ground was jerked out from under his feet. He fell - or the earth leaped up to meet him. The valley shook as though a vast hand had reached down from the sky to wrench it out of the land. He clung to the ground while it tried to bounce him like a ball. Pebbles in front of his eyes leaped and tumbled, and dust rose in waves. "Rand!" His bellow was lost in the grumbling roar. Rand stood with his head thrown back, his eyes still shut tight. He did not seem to feel the thrashing of the ground that had him now at one angle, now at another. His balance never shifted, no matter how he was tossed. Perrin could not be certain, being shaken as he was, but he thought Rand wore a sad smile. The trees flailed about, and the leatherleaf suddenly cracked in two, the greater part of its trunk crashing down not three paces from Rand. He noticed it no more than he noticed any of the rest. Perrin struggled to fill his lungs. "Rand! For the love of the Light, Rand! Stop it!" As abruptly as it had begun, it was done. A weakened branch cracked off of a stunted oak with a loud snap. Perrin got to his feet slowly, coughing. Dust hung in the air, sparkling motes in the rays of the setting sun. Rand was staring at nothing, now, chest heaving as if he had run ten miles. This had never happened before, nor anything remotely like it. "Rand," Perrin said carefully, "what -?" Rand still seemed to be looking into a far distance. "It is always there. Calling to me. Pulling at me. Saidin. The male half of the True Source. Sometimes I cant stop myself from reaching out for it." He made a motion of plucking something out of the air, and transferred his stare to his closed fist. "I can feel the taint even before I touch it. The Dark Ones taint, like a thin coat of vileness trying to hide the Light. It turns my stomach, but I cannot help myself. I cannot! Only sometimes, I reach out, and its like trying to catch air." His empty hand sprang open, and he gave a bitter laugh. "What if that happens when the Last Battle comes? What if I reach out and catch nothing?" "Well, you caught something that time," Perrin said hoarsely. "What were you doing?" Rand looked around as if seeing things for the first time. The fallen leatherleaf, and the broken branches. There was, Perrin realized, surprisingly little damage. He had expected gaping rents in the earth. The wall of trees looked almost whole. "I did not mean to do this. It was as if I tried to open a tap, and instead pulled the whole tap out of the barrel. It... filled me. I had to send it somewhere before it burned me up, but I... I did not mean this." Perrin shook his head. What use to tell him to try not to do it again? He barely knows more about what hes doing than I do. He contented himself with, "There are enough who want you dead - and the rest of us - without you doing the job for them." Rand did not seem to be listening. "We had best get on back to the camp. It will be dark soon, and I dont know about you, but I am hungry." "What? Oh. You go on, Perrin. I will be along. I want to be alone again a while." Perrin hesitated, then turned reluctantly toward the crack in the valley wall. He stopped when Rand spoke again. "Do you have dreams when you sleep? Good dreams?" "Sometimes," Perrin said warily. "I dont remember much of what I dream." He had learned to set guards on his dreaming. "Theyre always there, dreams," Rand said, so softly Perrin barely heard. "Maybe they tell us things. True things." He fell silent, brooding. "Suppers waiting," Perrin said, but Rand was deep in his own thoughts. Finally Perrin turned and left him standing there. PROLOGUE 1 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 20 21 22 23 24 25 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 House, so it was me that the Guild held responsible 42 43 44 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56Back to Table of contentTOP AUTHORSTerry PratchettDarren ShanSamantha YoungGav ThorpePamela PalmerGene WolfeF. Paul WilsonAmanda MaxlynJodi Ellen MalpasJill ShalvisSusan HillSherrilyn KenyonMegan ShepherdColleen GleasonKylie ScottCourtney SummersElizabeth KostovaYanna LeeTobias S. BuckellJennifer EstepGeorgia CatesEmma ChaseJ.C. ReedC.J. EllissonBrent WeeksKendare BlakeSam SykesMeg CabotNicole Peeler Philip AthansLauren KateS.D. PerryMax BrooksFritz LeiberMaryJanice DavidsonJames S.A. CoreyR.K. LilleyMolly McAdamsRobert McCammonKatja Millay < Copyright © novelfull thefreeonlinenovel.com All Rights Reserved.