 Toggle navigationHomeLatest UpdateAdventureChristianFantasyHistoricalHorrorHumorousMysteryRomanceScience FictionThrillerWesternYoung AdultTop BooksPreySphereBlack RoseThe Great Train RobberyBlue DahliaCarnal InnocenceDance Upon the AirHigh NoonLawlessSacred SinsTributeFace the FireHolding the DreamA Man for AmandaAll the PossibilitiesNextThe Dragon Reborn 48 () 48 (Leaf) Following the Craft As the Darter wallowed toward the docks of Tear, on the west bank of the River Erinin, Egwene did not see anything of the oncoming city. Slumped head down at the rail, she stared down at the waters of the Erinin rolling past the ships fat hull, and the frontmost sweep on her side as it swung into her vision and back again, cutting white furrows in the river. It made her queasy, but she knew raising her head would only make the sickness worse. Looking at the shore would only make the slow, corkscrew motion of the Darter more apparent. The vessel had moved in that twisting roll ever since Jurene. She did not care how it had sailed before then; she found herself wishing the Darter had sunk before reaching Jurene. She wished they had made the captain put in at Aringill so they could find another ship. She wished they had never gone near a ship. She wished a great many things, most of them just to take her mind off where she was. The twisting was less now, under sweeps, than it had been under sail, but it had gone on too many days now for the change to make much difference to her. Her stomach seemed to be sloshing about inside her like milk in a stone jug. She gulped and tried to forget that image. They had not done much in the way of planning on the Darter, she and Elayne and Nynaeve. Nynaeve could seldom go ten minutes without vomiting, and seeing that always made Egwene lose whatever food she had managed to get down. The increasing warmth as they went further downriver did not help. Nynaeve was below now, no doubt with Elayne holding a basin for her again. o! Dont think about that! Green fields. Meadows. Light, meadow, do not heave like that. Hummingbirds. No, not hummingbirds! Larks. Larks singing. "Mistress Joslyn? Mistress Joslyn!" It took her a moment to recognize the name she had chosen to give Captain Canin, and the captains voice. She raised her head slowly and fixed her eyes on his long face. "We are docking, Mistress Joslyn. Youve kept saying how eager you were to be ashore. Well, were there." His voice did not hide his eagerness to be rid of his three passengers, two of whom did little more than sick up, as he called it, and moan all night. Barefoot, shirtless sailors were tossing lines to men on the stone dock that thrust out into the river; the dockmen seemed to be wearing long leather vests in place of shirts. The sweeps had already been drawn in, except for a pair fending the ship off from coming against the dock too hard. The flat stones of the dock were wet; the air had a feel of rain not long gone, and that was a little soothing. The twisting motion had ceased some time since, she realized, but her stomach remembered. The sun was falling toward the west. She tri "Very good, Captain Canin," she said with all the dignity she could summon. Hed not sound like that if I were wearing my ring, not even if I were sick on his boots. She shuddered at the picture in her mind. Her Great Serpent ring and the twisted ring of the terangreal hung on a leather cord about her neck, now. The stone ring felt cool against her skin - almost enough to counteract the damp warmth of the air - but aside from that, she had found that the more she used the terangreal, the more she wanted to touch it, without pouch or cloth between it and her. Telaranrhiod still showed her little of immediate use. Sometimes there had been glimpses of Rand, or Mat, or Perrin, and more in her own dreams without the terangreal, but nothing of which she could make any sense. The Seanchan, who she refused to think about. Nightmares of a Whitecloak putting Master Luhhan in the middle of a huge, toothed trap for bait. Why should Perrin have a falcon on his shoulder, and what was important about him choosing between that axe he wore now and a blacksmiths hammer? What did it mean that Mat was dicing with the Dark One, and why did he keep shouting, "I am coming!" and why did she think in the dream that he was shouting at her? And Rand. He had been sneaking through utter darkness toward Callandor, while all around him six men and five women walked, some hunting him and some ignoring him, some trying to guide him toward the shining crystal sword and some trying to stop him from reaching it, appearing not to know where he was, or only to see him in flashes. One of the men had eyes of flame, and he wanted Rand dead with a desperation she could nearly taste. She thought she knew him. Baalzamon. But who were the others? Rand in that dry, dusty chamber again, with those small creatures settling into his skin. Rand confronting a horde of Seanchan. Rand confronting her, and the women with her, and one of them was a Seanchan. It was all too confusing. She had to stop thinking about Rand and the others and put her mind to what was right ahead of her. What is the Black Ajah up to? Why dont I dream something about them? Light, why cant I learn to make it do what I want? "Have the horses put ashore, Captain," she told Canin. "I will tell Mistress Maryim and Mistress Caryla." That was Nynaeve - Maryim - and Elayne - Caryla. "I have sent a man to tell them, Mistress Joslyn. And your animals will be on the dock as soon as my men can rig a boom." He sounded very pleased to be rid of them. She thought about telling him not to hurry, but rejected it immediately. The Darters corkscrewing might have stopped, but she wanted dry land under her feet again. Now. Still, she stopped to pat Mists nose and let the gray mare nuzzle her palm, to let Canin see she was in no great rush. Nynaeve and Elayne appeared at the ladder from the cabins, laden with their bundles and saddlebags, and Elayne almost as laden with Nynaeve. When Nynaeve saw Egwene watching, she pushed herself away from the DaughterHeir and walked unaided the rest of the way to where men were setting a narrow gangplank to the dock. Two crewmen came to fasten a wide canvas sling under Mists belly, and Egwene hurried below for her own things. When she came back up, her mare was already on the dock and Elaynes roan dangled in the canvas sling halfway there. For a moment after her feet were on the dock, all she felt was relief. This would not pitch and roll. Then she began to look at this city whose reaching had caused them such pains. Stone warehouses backed the long docks themselves, and there seemed to be a great many ships, large and small, alongside the docks or anchored in the river. Hastily she avoided looking at the ships. Tear had been built on flat land, with barely a bump. Down muddy dirt streets between the warehouses, she could see houses and inns and taverns of wood and stone. Their roofs of slate or tile had oddly sharp corners, and some rose to a point. Beyond these, she could make out a high wall of dark gray stone, and behind it the tops of towers with balconies high around them and whitedomed palaces. The domes had a squared shape to them, and the tower tops looked pointed, like some of the roofs outside the wall. All in all, Tear was easily as big as Caemlyn or Tar Valon, and if not so beautiful as either, it was still one of the great cities. Yet she found it hard to look at anything but the Stone of Tear. She had heard of it in stories, heard that it was the greatest fortress in the world and the oldest, the first built after the Breaking of the World, yet nothing had prepared her for this sight. At first she thought it was a huge, gray stone hill or a small, barren mountain covering hundreds of hides, its length stretching from the Erinin west through the wall and into the city. Even after she saw the huge banner flapping from its greatest height - three white crescent moons slanting across a field half red, half gold; a banner waving at least three hundred paces above the river, yet large enough to be clearly seen at that height - even after she made out battlements and towers, it was difficult to believe the Stone of Tear had been built rather than carved out of a mountain already there. "Made with the Power," Elayne murmured. She was staring at the Stone, too. "Flows of Earth woven to draw stone from the ground, Air to bring it from every corner of the world, and Earth and Fire to make it all in one piece, without seam or joint or mortar. Atuan Sedai says the Tower could not do it, today. Strange, given how the High Lords feel concerning the Power now." "I think," Nynaeve said softly, eyeing the dockmen moving around them, "that given that very thing, we should not mention certain other things aloud." Elayne appeared torn between indignation - she had spoken very softly - and agreement; the DaughterHeir agreed with Nynaeve too often and too readily to suit Egwene. Only when Nynaeve is right, she admitted to herself grudgingly. A woman who wore the ring, or was even associated with Tar Valon, would be watched here. The barefoot, leathervested dockmen were not paying the three of them any mind as they hurried about, carrying bales or crates on their backs as often as on barrows. A strong odor of fish hung in the air; the next three docks had dozens of small fishing boats clustered around them, just like those in the drawing in the Amyrlins study. Shirtless men and barefoot women were hoisting baskets of fish out of the boats, mounds of silver and bronze and green, and colors she had never suspected fish might be, such as bright red, and deep blue, and brilliant yellow, some with stripes or splotches of white and other colors. She lowered her voice for Elaynes ear alone. "She is right. Caryla. Remember why you are Caryla." She did not want Nynaeve to hear such admissions. Her face did not change when she heard, but Egwene could feel satisfaction radiating from her li Nynaeves black stallion was just being lowered to the dock; sailors had already carried their tack off the ship and simply dumped it on the wet stones of the dock. Nynaeve glanced at the horses and opened her mouth - Egwene was sure it was to tell them to saddle their animals - then closed it again, tightlipped, as if it had cost her an effort. She gave her braid one hard tug. Before the sling was well out of the way, Nynaeve tossed the bluestriped saddle blanket across the blacks back and hoisted her highcantled saddle atop it. She did not even look at the other two women. Egwene was not anxious to ride at that moment - the motion of a horse might be too close to the motion of the Darter for her stomach - but another look at those muddy streets convinced her. Her shoes were sturdy, but she would not enjoy having to clean mud off them, or having to hold her skirts up as she walked, either. She saddled Mist quickly and climbed onto her back, settling her skirts, before she could decide the mud might not be so bad after all. A little needlework on the Darter - Elayne had done it all, this time; the DaughterHeir sewed a very fine stitch - had divided all their dresses nicely for riding astride. Nynaeves face paled for a moment when she swung into her saddle and the stallion decided to frisk. She kept a tightmouthed grip on herself and a firm hand on her reins and soon had him under control. By the time they had ridden slowly past the warehouses, she could speak. "We need to locate Liandrin and the others without them learning we are asking after them. They surely know we are coming - that someone is, at least - but I would like them not to know we are here until it is too late for them." She drew a deep breath. "I confess I have not thought of any way to do this. Yet. Do either of you have any suggestions?" "A thieftaker," Elayne said without hesitation. Nynaeve frowned at her. "You mean like Hurin?" Egwene said. "But Hurin was in the service of his king. Wouldnt any thieftaker here serve the High Lords?" Elayne nodded, and for a moment Egwene envied the DaughterHeir her stomach. "Yes, they would. But thieftakers are not like the Queens Guards, or the Tairen Defenders of the Stone. They serve the ruler, but people who have been robbed sometimes pay them to retrieve what was stolen. And they also sometimes take money to find people. At least, they do in Caemlyn. I cannot think it is different here in Tear." "Then we take rooms at an inn," Egwene said, "and ask the innkeeper to find us a thieftaker." "Not an inn," Nynaeve said as firmly as she guided the stallion; she never seemed to let the animal get out of her control. After a moment she moderated her tone a little. "Liandrin, at least, knows us, and we have to assume the others do, too. They will surely be watching the inns for whoever followed the trail they sprinkled behind them. I mean to spring their trap in their faces, but not with us inside. Well not stay at an inn." Egwene refused to give her the satisfaction of asking. "Where then?" Elaynes brow furrowed. "If I made myself known- and could make anyone believe it, in these clothes and with no escort - we would be welcomed by most of the noble Houses, and very likely in the Stone itself - there are good relations between Caemlyn and Tear - but there would be no keeping it quiet. The entire city would know before nightfall. I cannot think of anywhere else except an inn, Nynaeve. Unless you mean to go out to a farm in the country, but we will never find them from the country." Nynaeve glanced at Egwene. "I will know when I see it. Let me look." Elaynes frown swept from Nynaeve to Egwene and back again." Do not cut off your ears because you do not like your earrings, " she muttered. Egwene put her attention firmly on the street they were riding along. I will be burned if Ill let her think I am even wondering! There were not a great many people out, not compared to the streets of Tar Valon. Perhaps the thick mud in the street discouraged them. Carts and wagons lurched past, most pulled by oxen with wide horns, the carter or wagoneer walking alongside with a long goad of some pale, ridged wood. No carriages or sedan chairs used these streets. The odor of fish hung in the air here, too, and no few of the men who hurried past carried huge baskets full of fish on their backs. The shops did not look prosperous; none displayed wares outside, and Egwene seldom saw anyone go in. The shops had signs - the tailors needle and bolt of cloth, the cutlers knife and scissors, the weavers loom, and the like - but the paint on most of them was peeling. The few inns had signs in as bad a state, and looked no busier. The small houses crowded between inns and shops often had tiles or slates missing from their roofs. This part of Tear, at least, was poor. And from what she saw on the faces, few of the people here cared to try any longer. They were moving, working, but most of them had given up. Few as much as glanced at three women riding where everyone else walked. The men wore baggy breeches, usually tied at the ankle. Only a handful wore coats, long, dark garments that fit arms and chest tightly, then became looser below the waist. There were more men in low shoes than in boots, but most went barefoot in the mud. A good many wore no coat or shirt at all, and had their breeches held up by a broad sash, sometimes colored and often dirty. Some had wide, conical straw hats on their heads, and a few, cloth caps that sagged down one side of the face. The womens dresses had high necks, right up to their chins, and hems that stopped at the ankle. Many had short aprons in pale colors, sometimes two or three, each smaller than the one beneath it, and most wore the same straw hats as the men, but dyed to complement the aprons. It was on a woman that she first saw how those who wore shoes dealt with the mud. The woman had small wooden platforms tied to the soles of her shoes, lifting them two hands out of the mud; she walked along as if her feet were planted firmly on the ground. Egwene saw others wearing the platforms after that, men as well as women. Some of the women went barefoot, but not as many as the men. She was wondering which shop might sell those platforms, when Nynaeve suddenly turned her black down an alleyway between a long, narrow twostory house and a stonewalled potters shop. Egwene exchanged glances with Elayne - the DaughterHeir shrugged - and then they followed. Egwene did not know where Nynaeve was going or why - and she meant to have words with her about it - but she did not mean to The alley suddenly let into a small yard behind the house, fenced in by the buildings around it. Nynaeve had already dismounted and tied her reins to a fig tree, where the stallion could not reach the green things sprouting in a vegetable patch that took up half the yard. A line of stones had been laid to make a path to the back door. Nynaeve strode to the door and knocked . "What is it?" Egwene demanded in spite of herself. "Why are we stopping here?" "Did you not see the herbs in the front windows?" Nynaeve knocked again. "Herbs?" Elayne said. "A Wisdom," Egwene told her as she got down from her saddle and tied Mist alongside the black. Gaidin is no good name for a horse. Does she think I dont know who she means it for? "Nynaeve has found herself a Wisdom, or Seeker, or whatever they call her here." A woman opened the door just enough to look out suspiciously. At first Egwene thought she was stout, but then the woman opened the door the rest of the way. She was certainly well padded, but the way she moved spoke of muscle underneath. She looked as strong as Mistress Luhhan, and some in Emonds Field claimed Alsbet Luhhan was almost as strong as her husband. It was not true, but it was not far wrong. "How can I help you?" the woman said in an accent like the Amyrlins. Her gray hair was arranged in thick curls that hung down the sides of her head, and her three aprons were in shades of green, each slightly darker than the one below, but even the topmost pale. "Which one of you needs me?" "I do," Nynaeve said. "I need something for a queasy stomach. And perhaps one of my companions does, too. That is, if weve come to the right place?" "Youre not Tairen," the woman said. "I should have known that by your clothes, before you spoke. Im called Mother Guenna. I am called a Wise Woman, too, but Im old enough not to trust that to caulk a seam. You come, and I will give you something for your stomach." It was a neat kitchen, though not large, with copper pots hanging on the wall, and dried herbs and sausages from the ceiling. Several tall cupboards of pale wood had doors carved with some sort of tall grass. The table had been scrubbed almost white, and the backs of the chairs were carved with flowers. A pot of fishysmelling soup was simmering atop the stone stove, and a kettle with a spout, just beginning to steam. There was no fire on the stone hearth, for which Egwene was more than grateful; the stove added enough to the heat, though Mother Guenna seemed not to notice it at all. Dishes lined the mantel, and more were stacked neatly on shelves to either side. The floor looked as if it had just been swept. Mother Guenna closed the door after them, and as she was crossing the kitchen to her cupboards, Nynaeve said, "Which tea will you give me? Chainleaf? Or bluewort?" "I would if I had any of either." Mother Guenna rooted in the shelves a moment and came out with a stone jar. "Since Ive had no time to glean of late, I will give you a brew of marshwhite leaves." "I am not familiar with that," Nynaeve said slowly. "It works as well as chainleaf, but it has a bite to the taste some dont care for." The big woman sprinkled dried and broken leaves into a blue teapot and carried it over to the fireplace to add hot water. "Do you follow the craft, then? Sit." She gestured to the table with a hand holding two blueglazed cups shed had taken from the mantel. "Sit, and well talk. Which one of you has the other stomach?" "I am fine," Egwene said casually as she took a chair. "Are you queasy, Caryla?" The DaughterHeir shook her head with perhaps a touch of exasperation. "No matter." The grayhaired woman poured out a cup of dark liquid for Nynaeve, then sat across the table from her. "I made enough for two, but marshwhite tea keeps longer than salted fish. It works better the longer it sits, too, but it also grows more bitter. Makes a race between how much you need your stomach settled and what your tongue can stand. Drink, girl." After a moment, she filled the second cup and took a sip. "You see? It will not hurt you." Nynaeve raised her own cup, making a small sound of displeasure at the first taste. When she lowered the cup again, though, her face was smooth. "It is just a little bitter perhaps. Tell me, Mother Guenna, will we have to put up with this rain and mud much longer?" The older woman frowned, parceling displeasure among the three of them before she settled on Nynaeve. "I am not a Sea Folk Windfinder, girl," she said quietly. "If I could tell the weather, Id sooner stick live silverpike down my dress than admit it. The Defenders take that sort of thing for next to Aes Sedai work. Now, do you follow the craft or not? You look as if you have been traveling. What is good for fatigue?" she barked suddenly. "Flatwort tea," Nynaeve said calmly, "or andilay root. Since you ask questions, what would you do to ease birthing?" Mother Guenna snorted. "Apply warm towels, child, and perhaps give her a little whitefennel if it was an especially hard birth. A woman needs no more than that, and a soothing hand. Cant you think of a question any country farmwife could not answer? What do you give for pains in the heart? The killing kind." "Powdered gheandin blossom on the tongue," Nynaeve said crisply. "If a woman has biting pains in her belly and spits up blood, what do you do?" They settled down as if testing each other, tossing questions and answers back and forth faster and faster. Sometimes the questioning lagged a moment when one spoke of a plant the other knew only by another name, but they picked up speed again, arguing the merits of tinctures against teas, salves against poultices, and when one was better than another. Slowly, all the quick questions began shifting toward the herbs and roots one knew that the other did not, digging for knowledge. Egwene began to grow irritable listening. you give him the boneknit," Mother Guenna was saying, "you wrap the broken limb in toweling soaked in water where youve boiled blue goatflowers - only the blue, mind!" - Nynaeve nodded impatiently - "and as hot as he can stand it. One part blue goatflowers to ten of water, no weaker. Replace the towels as soon as they stop steaming, and keep it up all day. The bone will knit twice as fast as with boneknit alone, and twice as strong." "I will remember that," Nynaeve said. "You mentioned using sheepstongue root for eye pain. Ive Egwene could stand it no longer. "Maryim," she broke in, "do you really believe youll ever need to know these things again? You are not a Wisdom any longer, or have you forgotten?" "I have not forgotten anything," Nynaeve said sharply. "I remember a time when you were as eager to learn new things as I am." "Mother Guenna," Elayne said blandly, "what do you do for two women who cannot stop arguing?" The grayhaired woman pursed her lips and frowned at the table. "Usually, men or women, I tell them to stay away from each other. That is the best thing, and the easiest." "Usually?" Elayne said. "What if there is a reason they cannot stay apart. Say they are sisters." "I do have a way to make an arguer stop," the big woman said slowly. "It is not something I urge anyone to try, but some do come to me." Egwene thought there was a suspicion of a smile at the corners of her mouth. "I charge a silver mark each for women. Two for men, because men make more fuss. There are some will buy anything, if it costs enough." "But what is the cure?" Elayne asked. "I tell them they have to bring the other one here with them, the one they argue with. Both expect me to quiet the others tongue." Despite herself, Egwene was listening. She noticed Nynaeve seemed to be paying sharp attention, as well. "When they have paid me," Mother Guenna continued, flexing one hefty arm, "I take them out back and stick their heads in my rain barrel till they agree to stop their arguing." Elayne burst out laughing. "I think I may have done something very like that myself," Nynaeve said in a voice that was much too light. Egwene hoped her own expression looked nothing like Nynaeves. "Id not be surprised if you have." Mother Guenna was grinning openly now. "I tell them the next time I hear theyve been arguing, I will do it for free, but Ill use the river. It is remarkable how often the cure works, for men especially. And it is remarkable what it has done for my reputation. For some reason, none of the people I cure this way ever tells anyone else the details, so someone asks for the cure every few months. If youve been fool enough to eat mudfish, you do not go around telling people. I trust none of you have any wish to spend a silver mark." "I think not," Egwene said, and glared at Elayne when she went off in peals of laughter again. "Good," the grayhaired woman said. "Those I cure of arguing have a tendency to avoid me like stingweed caught in their nets, unless they actually take sick, and I am enjoying your company. Most of those who come at present want something to take away bad dreams, and they grow sour when I have nothing to give them." For a moment she slipped into a frown, rubbing her temples. "It is good to see three faces that do not look as if there is nothing left but to jump over the side and drown. If you are staying long in Tear, you must come see me again. The girl called you Maryim? I am Ailhuin. The next time, well talk over some good Sea Folk tea instead of something that curdles your tongue. Light, but I hate the taste of marshwhite; mudfish would taste sweeter. In fact, if you have time to stay now, Ill brew a pot of Tremalking black. Not long till supper, either. Its just bread and soup and cheese, but you are welcome." "That would be very nice, Ailhuin," Nynaeve said. "Actually... Ailhuin, if you have a spare bedroom, Id like to hire it for the three of us." The big woman looked at each of them without saying anything. Getting to her feet, she tucked the pot of marshwhite tea away in the herb cupboard, then fetched a red teapot and a pouch from another. Only when she had brewed a pot of Tremalking black, put four clean cups and a bowl of honeycomb on the table along with pewter spoons, and reclaimed her chair did she speak. "Ive three empty bedrooms upstairs, now my daughters are all married. My husband, the Light shine on him, was lost in a storm in the Fingers of the Dragon near twenty years ago. There need be no talk of hiring, if I decide to let you have the rooms. If, Maryim." Stirring honey into her tea, she studied them again. "What will make you decide?" Nynaeve asked quietly. Ailhuin continued to stir, as if she had forgotten to drink. "Three young women, riding fine horses. I dont know much about horses, but those look as fine as what the lords and ladies ride, to me. You, Maryim, know enough of the craft that you ought to have hung herbs in your window already, or should be choosing where to do it. Ive never heard of a woman practicing the craft too far from where she was born, but by your tongue, you are a long way." She glanced at Elayne. "Not many places with hair that color. Andor, Id say, by your speech. Fool men are always talking about finding a yellowhaired Andor girl. What I want to know is why? Running away from something? Or running after something? Only, you dont look like thieves to me, and I never heard of three women chasing after a man together. So tell me why, and if I like it, the rooms are yours. If you want to pay something, you buy a bit of meat now and then. Meat is dear since the trade up to Cairhien fell away. But first the why, Maryim." "We are chasing after something, Ailhuin," Nynaeve said. "Or rather, after some people." Egwene schooled herself to stillness and hoped she was doing as well as Elayne, who was sipping her tea as if she were listening to talk about dresses. Egwene did not believe Ailhuin Guennas dark eyes missed a great deal. "They stole some things, Ailhuin," Nynaeve went on. "From my mother. And they did murder. We are here to see justice done." "Burn my soul," the large woman said, "have you no menfolk? Men are not good for much beyond heavy hauling and getting in the way, most of the time - and kissing and such - but if theres a battle to be fought or a thief to catch, I say let them do it. Andor is as civilized as Tear. You are not Aiel." "There was no one else but us," Nynaeve said. "Those who might have come in our place were killed." The three murdered Aes Sedai, Egwene thought. They could not have been Black Ajah. But if they had not been killed, the Amyrlin would not have been able to trust them. Shes trying to keep to the bloody Three Oaths, but she is skirting it close. "Aaah," Ailhuin said sadly. "They killed your men? Brothers, or husbands, or fathers?" Spots of color bloomed in Nynaeves cheeks, and the older woman mistook the emotion. "No, dont tell me, girl. Ill not pull up old grief. Let it lie on the bottom till it melts away. There, there, you calm yourself." It was an effort for Egwene "I must tell you this," Nynaeve said in a stiff voice. The red still colored her face. "These murderers and thieves are Darkfriends. They are women, but they are as dangerous as any swordsman, Ailhuin. If you wondered why we did not seek an inn, that is why. They may know we follow, and they may be watching for us." Ailhuin waved it all away with a sniff. "Of the four most dangerous folk I know, two are women who never carry as much as a knife, and only one of the men is a swordsman. As for Darkfriends... Maryim, when you are as old as I, youll learn that false Dragons are dangerous, lionfish are dangerous, sharks are dangerous, and sudden storms out of the south; but Darkfriends are fools. Filthy fools, but fools. The Dark One is locked up where the Creator put him, and no Fetches or fangfish to scare children will get him out. Fools dont frighten me unless theyre working the boat Im riding. I suppose you dont have any proof you could take to the Defenders of the Stone? It would be just your word against theirs?" What is a "Fetch"? Egwene wondered. Or a "fangfish," for that matter. "We will have proof when we find them," Nynaeve said. "They will have the things they stole, and we can describe them. They are old things, and of little value to anyone but us, and our friends." "You would be surprised what old things can be worth," Ailhuin said dryly. "Old Leuese Mulan pulled up three heartstone bowls and a cup in his nets last year, down in the Fingers of the Dragon. Now, instead of a fishing smack, he owns a ship trading up the river. Old fool did not even know what he had till I told him. Very likely theres more right where those came from, but Leuese couldnt even remember the exact spot. I do not know how he ever managed to get a fish into his net. Half the fishing boats in Tear were down there for months afterwards, dragging for cuendillar, not grunts or flatfish, and some had lords saying where to pull the nets. Thats what old things can be worth, if they are old enough. Now, Ive decided you do need a man in this, and I know just the one." "Who?" Nynaeve said quickly. "If you mean a lord, one of the High Lords, remember we have no proof to offer till we find them." Ailhuin laughed until she wheezed. "Girl, nobody from the Maule knows High Lord, or any kind of lord. Mudfish dont school with silversides. I will bring you the dangerous man I know who isnt a swordsman, and the more dangerous of the two, at that. Juilin Sandar is a thiefcatcher. The best of them. I do not know how it is in Andor, but here a thiefcatcher will work for you or me as soon as for a lord or a merchant, and charge less at that. Juilin can find these women for you if they can be found, and bring your things back without you having to go near these Darkfriends." Nynaeve agreed as if she were still not entirely sure, and Ailhuin tied those platforms to her shoes - clogs, she called them - and hurried out. Egwene watched her go, through one of the kitchen windows, past the horses and around the corner up the alley. "You are learning how to be Aes Sedai, Maryim," she said as she turned from the window. "You manipulate people as well as Moiraine." Nynaeves face went white. Elayne stalked across the floor and slapped Egwenes face. Egwene was so shocked she could only stare. "You go too far," the goldenhaired woman said sharply. "Too far. We must live together, or we will surely die together! Did you give Ailhuin your true name? Nynaeve told her what we could, that we seek Darkfriends, and that was risk enough, linking us with Darkfriends. She told her they were dangerous, murderers. Would you have had her say they are Black Ajah? In Tear? Would you risk everything on whether Ailhuin would keep that to herself?" Egwene rubbed her cheek gingerly. Elayne had a strong arm. "I do not have to like doing it." "I know," Elayne sighed. "Neither do I. But we do have to." Egwene turned back to peering through the window at the horses. I know we do. But I do not have to like it. PROLOGUE 1 2 3 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 20 21 22 23 24 25 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 House, so it was me that the Guild held responsible 42 43 44 46 47 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56Back to Table of contentTOP AUTHORSTerry PratchettDarren ShanSamantha YoungGav ThorpePamela PalmerGene WolfeF. Paul WilsonAmanda MaxlynJodi Ellen MalpasJill ShalvisSusan HillSherrilyn KenyonMegan ShepherdColleen GleasonKylie ScottCourtney SummersElizabeth KostovaYanna LeeTobias S. BuckellJennifer EstepGeorgia CatesEmma ChaseJ.C. ReedC.J. EllissonBrent WeeksKendare BlakeSam SykesMeg CabotNicole Peeler Philip AthansLauren KateS.D. PerryMax BrooksFritz LeiberMaryJanice DavidsonJames S.A. CoreyR.K. LilleyMolly McAdamsRobert McCammonKatja Millay < Copyright © novelfull thefreeonlinenovel.com All Rights Reserved.