 Toggle navigationHomeLatest UpdateAdventureChristianFantasyHistoricalHorrorHumorousMysteryRomanceScience FictionThrillerWesternYoung AdultTop BooksPreySphereBlack RoseThe Great Train RobberyBlue DahliaCarnal InnocenceDance Upon the AirHigh NoonLawlessSacred SinsTributeFace the FireHolding the DreamA Man for AmandaAll the PossibilitiesNextThe Dragon Reborn 44 () 44 </p Hunted Perrin climbed off the bed and started dressing, not caring whether Zarine was watching or not. He knew what he intended to do, but he asked Moiraine anyway. "Do we leave?" "Unless you want to make closer acquaintance with Sammael," she said dryly. Thunder crashed overhead as if to punctuate her sentence, and lightning flashed. The Aes Sedai barely glanced at Zarine. Stuffing his shirttail into his breeches, he suddenly wished he had his coat and cloak on. Naming which one of the Forsaken it was made the room seem cold. Baalzamon isnt bad enough; we have to have the Forsaken loose, too. Light, does it even matter if we find Rand, now? Is it too late? But he kept dressing, stamping his feet into his boots. It was that or give up, and Two Rivers folk were not known for giving up. "Sammael?" Zarine said faintly. "One of the Forsaken rules...? Light!" "Do you still wish to follow?" Moiraine said softly. "I would not make you stay here, not now, but I will give you one last chance to swear to go another way than I." Zarine hesitated, and Perrin paused with his coat half on. Surely no one would choose .to go with people who had incurred the wrath of one of the Forsaken. Not now that she knew something of what they faced. Not unless she has a very good reason. For that matter, anyone who heard one of the Forsaken was loose should already be running for a Sea Folk ship and asking passage to the other side of the Aiel Waste, not sitting there thinking. "No," Zarine said finally, and he began to relax. "No, I will not swear to go another way. Whether you lead me to the Horn of Valere or not, not even whoever does find the Horn will have a story such as this. I think this story will be told for the ages, Aes Sedai, and I will be part of it." "No!" Perrin snapped. "That is not good enough. What do you want?" "I have no time for this bickering," Moiraine broke in. "Any moment Lord Brend may learn that one of his Darkhounds is dead. You can be sure he will know that means a Warder, and he will come looking for the Gaidins Aes Sedai. Do you mean to sit here until he discovers where you are? Move, you foolish children! Move!" She vanished down the hall before he could open his mouth. Zarine did not wait, either, running from the room without her candle. Perrin hastily gathered his things and dashed for the back stairs still buckling his axe belt around his waist. He caught up to Loial going down, the Ogier trying to stuff a woodbound book into his saddlebags and put on his cloak at the same time. Perrin gave him a hand with the cloak while they both ran down the stairs, and Zarine caught the pair of them before they could dash out into the pouring rain. Perrin hunched his shoulders against the wet and ran for the stable across the stormdarkened yard without waiting to pull up the hood of his cloak. She has to have a reason. Being in a bloody story isnt reason enough for any but a madwoman! The rain soaked his shaggy curls, laying them flat around his head, before he darted through the stable door. Moiraine was there before them, in an oiled cloak still beaded with rain, and Nieda holding a lantern for Lan to finish saddling the horses. There was an extra, a bay gelding with an even stronger nose than Zarines. "I will send pigeons every day," the stout woman was saying. "No one will suspect me. Fortune prick me! Even Whitecloaks do speak well of me." "Listen to me, woman!" Moiraine snapped. "This is not a Whitecloak or a Darkfriend I speak of. You will flee this city, and make anyone you care for flee with you. For a dozen years you have obeyed me. Obey me now!" Nieda nodded, but reluctantly, and Moiraine growled with exasperation. "The bay is yours, girl," Lan said to Zarine. "Get on his back. If you do not know how to ride, you must learn by doing, or take my offer." Putting one hand on the high pommel, she vaulted easily into the saddle. "I was on a horse once, stoneface, now that I think of it." She twisted around to tie her bundle behind her. "What did you mean, Moiraine?" Perrin demanded as he tossed his saddlebag across Steppers back. "You said he would find out where I am. He knows. The Gray Men!" Nieda giggled, and he wondered irritably how much she really knew or believed among the things she said she did not believe in. "Sammael did not send the Gray Men." Moiraine mounted Aldieb with a cool, straightbacked precision, almost as if there were no hurry. "The Darkhound was his, however. I believe it followed my trail. He would not have sent both. Someone wants you, but I do not think Sammael even knows you exist. Yet." Perrin stopped with one foot in the stirrup, staring at her, but she seemed more concerned with patting her mares arching neck than with the questions on his face. "As well I went after you," Lan said, and the Aes Sedai sniffed loudly. "I could wish you were a woman, Gaidin. I would send you to the Tower as a novice to learn to obey!" He raised an eyebrow and touched the hilt of his sword, then swung into his saddle, and she sighed. "Perhaps it is as well you are disobedient. Sometimes it is well. Besides, I do not think Sheriam and Siuan Sanche together could teach you obedience." "I do not understand," Perrin said. I seem to be saying that a great deal, and Im tired of it. I want some answers I can understand. He pulled himself the rest of the way up so Moiraine would not be looking down at him; she had enough advantage without that. "If he did not send the Gray Men, who did? If a Myrddraal, or another Forsaken..." He stopped to swallow. ANOTHER Forsaken! Light! "If somebody else sent them, why did they not tell him? Theyre all Darkfriends, arent they? And why me, Moiraine? Why me? Rand is the bloody Dragon Reborn!" He heard the gasps from Zarine and Nieda, and only then realized what he had said. Moiraines stare seemed to skin him like the sharpest steel. Hasty bloody tongue. When did I stop thinking before I speak? It seemed to him it had happened when he first felt Zarines eyes watching him. She was watching him now, with her mouth hanging open. re sealed to us, now," Moiraine told the boldfaced woman. "There is no turning back for you. Ever." Zarine looked as if she wanted to say something and was afraid to, but the Aes Sedai had already turned her attention elsewhere. "Nieda, flee Illian tonight. In this hour! And hold your tongue even better than you have held it all these years. There are those who would cut it out for what you could say, before I could even find you." Her hard tone left doubts as to exactly how she meant that, and Nieda nodded vigorously as if s "As for you, Perrin." The white mare moved closer, and he leaned back from the Aes Sedai despite all he could do. "There are many threads woven in the Pattern, and some are as black as the Shadow itself. Take care one of them does not strangle you." Her heels touched Aldiebs flanks, and the mare darted into the rain, Mandarb following close behind. Burn you, Moiraine, Perrin thought as he rode after them. Sometimes I do not know which side you are on. He glanced at Zarine, riding beside him as if she had been born in a saddle. And whose side are you on? Rain kept people off the streets and canals, so no visible eyes watched them go, but it made the footing uncertain for the horses on the uneven paving stones. By the time they reached the Maredo Causeway, a wide road of packed dirt stretching north through the marsh, the downpour had begun to slacken. Thunder still boomed, but the lightning flashed far behind them, perhaps out to sea. Perrin felt a bit of luck was coming their way. The rain had stayed long enough to hide their departure, but now it seemed they would have a clear night for riding. He said as much, but Lan shook his head. "Darkhounds like clear, moonlit nights best, blacksmith, rain the least. A good thunderstorm can keep them away completely." As if his words had bidden it, the rain faded to a faint drizzle. Perrin heard Loial groan behind him. Causeway and marsh ended together, some two miles or so from the city, but the road kept on, slowly bearing a little eastward. Clouddark evening faded into night, and the misting rain continued. Moiraine and Lan kept a steady, groundeating pace. The horses hooves splashed through puddles on the hardpacked dirt. The moon shone through gaps in the clouds. Low hills began to rise around them, and trees to appear more and more often. Perrin thought there must be forest ahead, but he was not sure how he liked the idea. Woods could hide them from pursuit; woods could let pursuit come close before they saw. A thin howl rose far behind them. For a moment he thought it was a wolf; he surprised himself by nearly reaching out to the wolf before he could stop. The cry came again, and he knew it was no wolf. Others answered it, all miles behind, eerie wails holding blood and death, cries that spoke of nightmares. To his surprise, Lan and Moiraine slowed, the Aes Sedai studying the hills around them in the night. "They are a long way," he said. "Theyll not catch us if we keep on." "The Darkhounds?" Zarine muttered. "Those are the Darkhounds? Are you sure it isnt the Wild Hunt, Aes Sedai?" "But it is," Moiraine replied. "It is." "You can never outrun the Darkhounds, blacksmith," Lan said, "not on the fastest horse. Always, you must face them and defeat them, or they will pull you down." "I could have stayed in the stedding, you know," Loial said. "My mother would have had me married by now, but it would not have been a bad life. Plenty of books. I did not have to come Outside." "There," Moiraine said, pointing to a tall, treeless mound well off to their right. There were no trees that Perrin could see for two hundred paces or more around it, either, and they were still sparse beyond that. "We must see them coming to have a chance." The Darkhounds dire cries rose again, closer, yet still far. Lan quickened Mandarbs pace a little, now that Moiraine had chosen their ground. As they climbed, the horses hooves clattered on rocks halfburied in the dirt and slicked by the drizzle. To Perrins eyes, most of them had too many squared corners to be natural. At the top, they dismounted around what seemed to be a low, rounded boulder. The moon appeared through a gap in the clouds, and he found himself looking at a weathered stone face two paces long. A womans face, he thought from the length of the hair. The rain made her seem to be weeping. Moiraine dismounted and stood looking off in the direction of the howls. She was a shadowed, hooded shape, rain catching moonlight as it rolled down her oiled cloak. Loial led his horse over to peer at the carving, then bent closer and felt the features. "I think she was an Ogier," he said at last. "But this is not an old stedding; I would feel it. We all would. And we would be safe from Shadowspawn." "What are you two staring at?" Zarine squinted at the rock. What is it? Her? Who?" "Many nations have risen and fallen since the Breaking," Moiraine said without turning, "some leaving no more than names on a yellowed page, or lines on a tattered map. Will we leave as much behind?" The blooddrenched howls rose again, still closer. Perrin tried to calculate their pace, and thought Lan had been right; the horses could not have outrun them, after all. They would not have long to wait. "Ogier," Lan said, "you and the girl hold the horses." Zarine protested, but he rode straight over to her. "Your knives will not do much good here, girl." His sword blade gleamed in the moonlight as he drew it. "Even this is a last resort. It sounds like ten out there, not one. Your work is to keep the horses from running when they smell the Darkhounds. Even Mandarb does not like that smell." If the Warders sword was no good, then neither was the axe. Perrin felt something near to relief at that, even if they were Shadowspawn; he would not have to use the axe. He drew the length of his unstrung bow from under Steppers saddle girths. "Maybe this will do some good." "Try if you wish, blacksmith," Lan said. "They do not die easily. Perhaps you will kill one." Perrin drew a fresh bowstring from his pouch, trying to shield it from the soft rain. The beeswax coating was thin, and not much protection against prolonged damp. Setting the bow slantwise between his legs, he bent it easily, fixing the loops of the bowstring into the horn nocks at the ends of the bow. When he straightened, he could see the Darkhounds. e horses at a gallop, and as he caught sight of them, they gathered speed. They were only ten large shapes running in the night, sweeping through the scattered trees, yet he pulled a broadhead arrow from his quiver, nocked it but did not draw. He had been far from the best bowman in Emonds Field, but among the younger men, only Rand had been better. At three hundred paces he would shoot, he decided. Fool! Youd have a hard time hitting a target standing still at that distance. But if I wait, the way they are moving... Stepping up beside Moiraine, he raised his bow - I just have to imagine that moving shadow is a big dog - drew the goosefeather fletchings to his ear, and loosed. He was sure the shaft merged with the nearest shadow, but the only result was a snarl. It is not going to work. Theyre coming too fast! He was already drawing another arrow. Why arent you doing something, Moiraine? He could see their eyes, shining like silver, their teeth gleaming like burnished steel. Black as the night itself and as big as small ponies, they sped toward him, silent now, seeking the kill. The wind carried a stink near to burned sulphur; the horses whickered fearfully, even Lans warhorse. Burn you, Aes Sedai, do something! He loosed again; the frontmost Darkhound faltered and came on. They can die! He shot once more, and the lead Darkhound tumbled, staggered to its feet, then fell, yet even as it did he knew a moment of despair. One down, and the other nine had covered two thirds of the distance already; they seemed to be running even faster, like shadows flowing across the ground. One more arrow. Time for one more, maybe, and then its the axe. Burn you, "Now," Moiraine said as his arrow left the bow. The air between her hands caught fire and streaked toward the Darkhounds, vanquishing night. The horses squealed and leaped against being held. Perrin threw an arm across his eyes to shield them from a whitehot glare like burning, heat like a forge cracking open; sudden noon flared in the darkness, and was gone. When he uncovered his eyes, spots flickered across his vision, and the faint, fading image of that line of fire. Where the Darkhounds had been was nothing but nightcovered ground and the soft rain; the only shadows that moved were cast by clouds crossing the moon. I thought shed throw fire at them, or call lightning, but this... "What was that?" he asked hoarsely. Moiraine was peering off toward Illian again, as if she could see through all those miles of darkness. "Perhaps he did not see," she said, almost to herself. "It is far, and if he was not watching, perhaps he did not notice." "Who?" Zarine demanded. "Sammael?" Her voice shook a little. "You said he was in Illian. How could he see anything here? What did you do?" "Something forbidden," Moiraine said coolly. "Forbidden by vows almost as strong as the Three Oaths." She took Aldiebs reins from the girl, and patted the mares neck, calming her. "Something not used in nearly two thousand years. Something I might be stilled just for knowing." "Perhaps...?" Loials voice was a faint boom. "Perhaps we should be going? There could be more." "I think not," the Aes Sedai said, mounting. "He would not loose two packs at once, even if he has two; they would turn on each other instead of their prey. And I think we are not his main quarry, or he would have come himself. We were... an annoyance, I think" - her tone was calm, but it was clear she did not like being regarded so lightly - "and perhaps a little something extra to slip into his gamebag, if we were not too much trouble. Still, there is small good in remaining any nearer him than we must." "Rand?" Perrin asked. He could almost feel Zarine leaning forward to listen. "If we are not what he hunts, is it Rand?" "Perhaps," Moiraine said. "Or perhaps Mat. Remember that he is taveren also, and he blew the Horn of Valere." Zarine made a strangled sound. "He blew it? Someone has found it already?" The Aes Sedai ignored her, leaning out of her saddle to stare closely into Perrins eyes, dark gleaming into burnished gold. "Once again events outpace me. I do not like that. And neither should you. If events outrun me, they may well trample you, and the rest of the world with you." "We have many leagues to Tear yet," Lan said. "The Ogiers suggestion is a good one." He was already in his saddle. After a moment Moiraine straightened and touched the mares ribs with her heels. She was halfway down the side of the mound before he could get his bow unstrung and take Steppers reins from Loial. Burn you, Moiraine! Ill find some answers somewhere! Leaning back against a fallen log, Mat enjoyed the warmth of the campfire - the rains had drifted south three days earlier, but he still felt damp - yet right at that moment, he was hardly aware of the dancing flames. He peered thoughtfully at the small, waxcovered cylinder in his hand. Thom was engrossed in tuning his harp, muttering to himself of rain and wet, never glancing Mats way. Crickets chirped in the dark thicket around them. Caught between villages by sunset, they had chosen this copse away from the road. Two nights they had tried to buy a room for the night; twice a farmer had loosed his dogs on them. Mat unsheathed his belt knife, and hesitated. Luck. It only explodes sometimes, she said. Luck. As carefully as he could, he slit along the length of the tube. It was a tube, and of paper, as he had thought - he had found bits of paper on the ground after fireworks were set off, back home - layers of paper, but all that filled the inside was something that looked like dirt, or maybe tiny grayblack pebbles and dust. He stirred them on his palm with one finger. How in the Light could pebbles explode? "The Light burn me!" Thom roared. He thrust his harp into its case as if to protect it from what was in Mats hand. "Are you trying to kill us, boy? Havent you ever heard those things explode ten times as hard for air as for fire? Fireworks are the next thing to Aes Sedai work, boy." "Maybe," Mat said, "but Aludra did not look like any Aes Sedai to me. I used to think that about Master alVeres clock - that it had to be Aes Sedai work - but once I got the back of the cabinet open, I saw it was full of little pieces of metal." He shifted uncomfortably at the memory. Mistress alVere had been the first to reach him that time, with the Wisdom and his father and the Mayor all right behind her, and none believing he just meant to look. I could have put them all back together. "I think Perrin could make one, if he saw those little wheels and springs and I dont know what all." "You would be surprised, boy," Thom said dryly. "Even a bad clockmaker is a fairly rich man, and they earn it. But a clock does not explode in your face!" "Neither did this. Well, it is useless, now." He tossed the handful of paper and little pebbles into the fire to a screech from Thom; the pebbles sparked and made tiny flashes, and there was a smell of acrid smoke. "You are trying to kill us." Thoms voice was unsteady, and it rose in intensity and pitch as he spoke. "If I decide I want to die, I will go to the Royal Palace when we reach Caemlyn, and Ill pinch Morgase!" His long mustaches flailed. "Do not do that again!" "It did not explode," Mat said, frowning at the fire. He fished into the oiledcloth roll on the other side of the log and pulled out a firework of the next larger size. "I wonder why there was no bang." "I do not care why there was no bang! Do not do it again!" at him and laughed. "Stop shaking, Thom. Theres no need to be afraid. I know what is inside them, now. At least, I know what it looks like, but... Dont say it. I will not be cutting any more open, Thom. It is more fun to set them off, anyway." "I am not afraid, you mudfooted swineherd," Thom said with elaborate dignity. "I am shaking with rage because Im traveling with a goatbrained lout who might kill the pair of us because he cannot think pa "Ho, the fire!" Mat exchanged glances with Thom as horses hooves approached. It was late for anyone honest to be traveling. But the Queens Guards kept the roads safe this close to Caemlyn, and the four who rode into the firelight certainly did not look like robbers. One was a woman. The men all wore long cloaks and seemed to be her retainers, while she was pretty and blueeyed, in gold necklace and a gray silk dress and a velvet cloak with a wide hood. The men dismounted. One held her reins and another her stirrup, and she smiled at Mat, doffing her gloves as she came near the fire. "I fear we are caught out late, young master," she said, "and I would trouble you for directions to an inn, if you know one." He grinned and started to rise. He had made it as far as a crouch when he heard one of the men mutter something, and another produced a crossbow from under his cloak, already drawn, with a clip holding the bolt. "Kill him, fool!" the woman shouted, and Mat tossed the firework into the flames and threw himself toward his quarterstaff. There was a loud bang and a flash of light - "Aes Sedai!" a man cried. "Fireworks, fool!" the woman shouted - and he rolled to his feet with the staff in his hand to see the crossbow bolt sticking out of the fallen log almost where he had been sitting, and the crossbowman falling with the hilt of one of Thoms knives adorning his chest. It was all he had time to see, for the other two men darted past the fire at him, drawing swords. One of them suddenly stumbled to his knees, dropping his sword to claw at the knife in his back as he fell facedown. The last man did not see his companion fall; he obviously expected to be one of a pair, dividing their opponents attention, as he thrust his blade at Mats middle. Feeling almost contemptuous, Mat cracked the fellows wrist with one end of his staff, sending the sword flying, and cracked his forehead with the other. The mans eyes rolled up in his head as he collapsed. From the corner of his eye, Mat saw the woman walking toward him, and he stuck a finger at her like a knife. "Fine clothes you wear for a thief, woman! You sit down till I decide what to do with you, or Ill - " She looked as surprised as Mat at the knife that suddenly bloomed in her throat, a red flower of spreading blood. He took a half step, as if to catch her as she fell, knowing it was no good. Her long cloak settled over her, covering everything but her face, and the hilt of Thoms knife. "Burn you," Mat muttered. "Burn you, Thom Merrilin! A woman! Light, we could have tied her up, given her to the Queens Guards tomorrow in Caemlyn. Light, I might even have let her go. Shed rob nobody without these three, and the only one that lives will be days before he can see straight and months before he can hold a sword. Burn you, Thom, there was no need to kill her!" The gleeman limped to where the woman lay, and kicked back her cloak. The dagger had half fallen from her hand, its blade as wide as Mats thumb and two hands long. "Would you rather I had waited till she nested that in your ribs, boy?" He retrieved his own knife, wiping the blade on her cloak. Mat realized he was humming. "She Wore a Mask That Hid Her Face," and stopped it. He bent down and hid hers with the hood of her cloak. "Best we move on," he said quietly. "I do nor want to have to explain this if a patrol of the Guards happens by ." "With her in those clothes?" Thom said. "I should say not! They must have robbed a merchants wife, or some noblewomans carriage." His voice became gentler. "If were going, boy, you had best see to saddling your horse." Mat gave a start and pulled his eyes from the dead woman. "Yes, I had better, hadnt I?" He did not look at her again. He had no such compunction about the men. As far as he was concerned, a man who decided to rob and kill deserved what he got when he lost the game. He did not dwell on them, but neither did he jerk his eyes away if they fell on one of the robbers. It was after he had saddled his gelding and tied his things on behind, while he was kicking dirt onto the fire, that he found himself looking at the man who had shot the crossbow. There was something familiar about those features, about the way the smothering fire made shadows across them. Luck, he told himself. Always the luck. "The crossbowman was a good swimmer, Thom," he said as he climbed into the saddle. "What foolery are you talking, now?" The gleeman was on his horse, too, and far more concerned with how his instrument cases rode behind his saddle than he was in the dead. "How could you know whether he could even swim at all?" "He made it ashore from a small boat in the middle of the Erinin in the middle of the night. I guess that used up all his luck." He checked the lashings on the roll of fireworks again. If that fool thought one of these was Aes Sedai, I wonder what hed have thought if they all went off. "Are you sure, boy? The chances of it being the same man... Why, even you wouldnt lay a wager against those odds." "I am sure, Thom." Elayne, I will wring your neck when I put my hands on you. And Egwenes and Nynaeves, too. "And I am sure I intend to have this bloody letter out of my hands an hour after we reach Caemlyn." "I tell you, there is nothing in that letter, boy. I played Daes Daemar when I was younger than you, and I can recognize a code or a cipher even when I dont know what it says." "Well, I never played your Great Game, Thom, your bloody Game of Houses, but I know when someone is chasing me, and theyd not be chasing this hard or this far for the gold in my pockets, not for less than a chest full of gold. It has to be the letter." Burn me, pretty girls always get me in trouble. "Do you feel like sleeping tonight, after this?" "With the sleep of an innocent babe, boy. But if you want to ride, Ill ride." The face of a pretty woman floated into Mats head, with a dagger in her throat. You had no luck, pretty woman. "Then lets ride!" he said savagely. >(Lion Rampant) Caemlyn Mat had vague memories of Caemlyn, but when they approached it in the early hours after sunrise, it seemed as if he had never been there before. They had not been alone on the road since first light, and other riders surrounded them now, and trains of merchants wagons and folk afoot, all streaming toward the great city. Built on rising hills, it was surely as large as Tar Valon, and outside the huge walls - a fiftyfoot height of pale, grayish stone streaked with white and silver sparkling in the sun, spaced with tall, round towers with the Lion Banner of Andor waving atop them, white on red - outside those walls, it seemed as if another great city had been placed, wrapping around the walled city, all red brick and gray stone and white plastered walls, inns pushed in on houses of three and four stories so fine they must belong to wealthy merchants, shops with goods displayed on tables under awnings crowding against wide, windowless warehouses. Open markets under red and purple roof tiles lined the road on both sides, men and women already crying their wares, bargaining at the top of their voices, while penned calves and sheep and goats and pigs, caged geese and chickens and ducks, added to the din. He seemed to remember thinking Caemlyn was too noisy when he was here before; now it sounded like a The road led to arched gates twenty feet high, standing open under the watchful eye of redcoated Queens Guards in their shining breastplates - they eyed Thom and him no more than anyone else, not even the quarterstaff slanted across his saddle in front of him; all they cared was that people keep moving, it seemed - and then they were within. Slender towers here rose even taller than those along the walls, and gleaming domes shone white and gold above streets teeming with people. Just inside the gates the road split into two parallel streets, separated by a wide strip of grass and trees. The hills of the city rose like steps toward a peak, which was surrounded by another wall, shining as white as Tar Valons, with still more domes and towers within. That was the Inner City, Mat recalled, and atop those highest hills stood the Royal Palace. "No point waiting," he told Thom. "Ill take the letter straight on." He looked at the sedan chairs and carriages making their way through the crowds, the shops with all their goods displayed. "A man could earn some gold in this city, Thom, once he found a game of dice, or cards." He was not quite so lucky at cards as at dice, but few except nobles and the wealthy played those games anyway. Now thats who I should find a game with. Thom yawned at him and hitched at his gleemans cloak as if it were a blanket. "We have ridden all night, boy. Lets at least find something to eat, first. The Queens Blessing has good meals." He yawned again. "And good beds." "I remember that," Mat said slowly. He did, in a way. The innkeeper was a fat man with graying hair, Master Gill. Moiraine had caught up to Rand and him there, when he had thought they were finally free of her. Shes off playing her game with Rand, now. Nothing to do with me. Not anymore. "I will meet you there, Thom. I said Id have this letter out of my hands an hour after I arrived, and I mean to. You go on." Thom nodded and turned his horse aside, calling over his shoulder through a yawn. "Do not become lost, boy. Its a big city, Caemlyn." And a rich one. Mat heeled his mount on up the crowded street. Lost! I can find my bloody way. The sickness appeared to have erased parts of his memory. He could look at an inn, its upper floors sticking out over the ground floor all the way around and its sign creaking in the breeze, and remember seeing it before, yet not recall another thing he could see from that spot. A hundred paces of street might abruptly spark in his memory, while the parts before and after remained as mysterious as dice still in the cup. Even with the holes in his memory he was sure he had never been to the Inner City or the Royal Palace - I couldnt forget that! - yet he did not need to remember the way. The streets of the New City - he remembered that name suddenly; it was the part of Caemlyn less than two thousand years old - ran every which way, but the main boulevards all led to the Inner City. The Guards at the gates made no effort to stop anyone. Within those white walls were buildings that could almost have fit in Tar Valon. The curving streets topped hills to reveal thin towers, their tiled walls sparkling with a hundred colors in the sunlight, or to look down on parks laid out in patterns made to be viewed from above, or to show sweeping vistas across the entire city to the rolling plains and forests beyond. It did not really matter which streets he took here. They all spiraled in on what he sought, the Royal Palace of Andor. In no time, he found himself crossing the huge oval plaza before the Palace, riding toward its tall, gilded gates. The pure white Palace of Andor would certainly not have been out of place among Tar Valons wonders, with its slender towers and golden domes shining in the sun, its high balconies and intricate stonework. The gold leaf on one of those domes could have kept him in luxury for a year. There were fewer people in the plaza than elsewhere, as if it were reserved for great occasions. A dozen of the Guards stood before the closed gates, bows slanted, all at exactly the same angle, across their gleaming breastplates, faces hidden by the steel bars of their burnished helmets faceguards. A heavyset officer, with his red cloak thrown back to reveal a knot of gold braid on his shoulder, was walking up and down the line, eyeing each man as if he thought he might find rust or dust. Mat drew rein and put on a smile. "Good morning to you, Captain." The officer turned, staring at him through the bars of his faceguard with deep, beady eyes, like a pudgy rat in a cage. The man was older than he had expected - surely old enough to have more than one knot of rank - and fat rather than stocky. "What do you want, farmer?" he demanded roughly. Mat drew a breath. Make it good. Impress this fool so he doesnt keep me waiting all day. I dont want to have to flash the Amyrlins paper around to keep from kicking my heels. "I come from Tar Valon, from the White Tower, bearing a letter from -" "You come from Tar Valon, farmer?" The fat officers stomach shook as he laughed, but then his laughter cut off as if severed with a knife, and he glared. "We want no letters from Tar Valon, rogue, if you have such a thing! Our good Queen - may the Light illumine her! - will take no word from the White Tower until the DaughterHeir is returned to her. I never heard of any messenger from the Tower wearing a country mans coat and breeches. It is plain to me you are up to some trick, perhaps thinking youll find a few coins if you come claiming to carry letters, but you will be lucky if you dont end in a prison cell! If you do come from Tar Valon, go back and tell the Tower to return the DaughterHeir before we come and take her! If youre a trickster after silver, get out of my sight before I have you beaten within an inch of your life! Either way, you halfwit looby, be gone!" Mat had been trying to edge a word in from the beginning of the mans speech. He said quickly, "The letter is from her, man. It is from -" "Did I not tell you to be gone, ruffian?" the fat man bellowed. His face was growing nearly as red as his coat. "Take yourself out of my sight, you gutter scum! If you are not gone by the time I count ten, I will arrest you for littering the plaza with your presence! One! Two!" "Can you count so high, you fat fool?" Mat snapped. "I tell you, Elayne sent -" "Guards!" The officers face was purple now. "Seize this man for a Darkfriend!" Mat hesitated a moment, sure no one could take such a charge seriously, but the redcoated Guards dashed toward him, all dozen men in breastplates and helmets, and he wheeled his horse and galloped ahead of them, followed by the fat mans shouts. The gelding was no racer, but it outdistanced men afoot easily enough. People dodged out of his way along the curving streets, shaking fists after him and shouting as many Fool, he thought, meaning the fat officer, then added another for himself. All I had to do was say her bloody name in the beginning. "Elayne, the DaughterHeir of Andor, sends this letter to her mother, Queen Morgase." Light, who could have thought theyd think that way about Tar Valon. From what he remembered of his last visit, Aes Sedai and the White Tower had been close behind Queen Morgase in the Guards affections. Burn her, Elayne could have told me. Reluctantly, he added, I could have asked questions, too. Before he reached the arched gates that let out into the New City, he slowed to a walk. He did not think the Guards from the Palace could still be chasing him, and there was no point in attracting the eyes of those at the gate by galloping through, but they looked at him no more now than when he had first entered. As he rode under the broad arch, he smiled and almost turned back. He had suddenly remembered something, and had an idea that appealed to him a good deal more than walking through the Palace gates. Even if that fat officer had not been watching the gates, he thought he would like it better. He became lost twice while searching for The Queens Blessing, but at last he found the sign with a man kneeling before a woman with redgold hair and a crown of golden roses, her hand on his head. It was a broad stone building of three stories, with tall windows even up under the red roof tiles. He rode around back to the stableyard, where a horsefaced fellow, in a leather vest that could hardly be any tougher than his skin, took his horses reins. He thought he remembered the fellow. Yes. Ramey. "It has been a long time, Ramey." Mat tossed him a silver mark. "You remember me, dont you?" "Cant say as I..." Ramey began, then caught the shine of silver where he had expected copper; he coughed, and his short nod turned into something that combined a knuckled forehead with a jerky bow. "Why, of course I do, young master. Forgive me. Slipped my mind. Mind no good for people. Good for horses. I know horses, I do. A fine animal, young master. Ill take good care of him, you can be sure." He delivered it all quickly, with no room for Mat to say a word, then hurried the gelding into the stable before he might have to come up with Mats name. With a sour grimace, Mat put the fat roll of fireworks under his arm and shouldered the rest of his belongings. Fellow couldnt tell me from Hawkwings toenails. A bulky, muscular man was sitting on an upturned barrel beside the door to the kitchen, gently scratching the ear of a blackandwhite cat crouched on his knee. The man studied Mat with heavylidded eyes, especially the quarterstaff across his shoulder, but he never stopped his scratching. Mat thought he remembered him, but he could not bring up a name. He said nothing as he went through the door, and neither did the man. No reason they should remember me. Probably have bloody Aes Sedai coming for people every day. In the kitchen, two undercooks and three scullions were darting between stoves and roasting spits under the direction of a round woman with her hair in a bun and a long wooden spoon that she used to point out what she wanted done. Mat was sure he remembered the round woman. Coline, and what a name for a woman that wide, but everybody called her Cook. "Well, Cook," he announced, "I am back, and not a year since I left." She peered at him a moment, then nodded. "I remember you." He began to grin. "You were with that young prince, werent you?" she went on. "The one who looked so like Tigraine, the Light illumine her memory. Youre his serving man, arent you? Is he coming back, then, the young prince?" "No," he said curtly. A prince! Light! "I do not think he will be anytime soon, and I dont think you would like it if he did." She protested, saying what a fine, handsome young man the prince was - Burn me, it there a woman anywhere who doesnt moon over Rand and make calfeyes if you mention his bloody name? Shed bloody scream if she knew what he is doing now - but he refused to let her get it out. "Is Master Gill about? And Thom Merrilin?" "In the library," she said with a tight sniff. "You tell Basel Gill when you see him that I said those drains need cleaning. Today, mind." She caught sight of something one of the undercooks was doing to a beef roast and waddled over to her. "Not so much, child. You will make the meat too sweet if you put so much arrath on it." She seemed to have forgotten Mat already. He shook his head as he went in search of this library he could not remember. He could not remember that Coline was married to Master Gill, either, but if he had ever heard a goodwife send instructions to her husband, that had been it. A pretty serving girl with big eyes giggled and directed him down a hall beside the common room. When he stepped into the library, he stopped and stared. There had to be more than three hundred books on the shelves built on the walls, and more lying on tables; he had never seen so many books in one place in his life. He noticed a leatherbound copy of The Travels of Jaim Farstrider on a small table near the door. He had always meant to read that - Rand and Perrin had always been telling him things out of it - but he never did seem to get around to reading the books he meant to read. Pinkfaced Basel Gill and Thom Merrilin were seated at one of the tables, facing each other across a stones board, pipes in their teeth trailing thin blue streamers of tabac smoke. A calico cat sat on the table beside a wooden dice cup, her tail curled over her feet, watching them play. The gleemans cloak was nowhere in sight, so Mat supposed he had already gotten a room. "Youre done sooner than I expected, boy," Thom said around his pipestem. He tugged one long, white mustache as he considered where to place his next stone on the boards crosshatchings. "Basel, you remember Mat Cauthon." "I remember," the fat innkeeper said, peering at the board. "Sickly, the last time you were here, I recall. I hope you are better now, lad." "I am better," Mat said. "Is that all you remember? That I was sick?" Master Gill winced at Thoms move and took his pipe out of his mouth. "Considering who you left with, lad, and considering the way things are now, maybe its best I remember no more than that." "Aes Sedai not in such good odor now, are they?" Mat set his things in one big armchair, the quarterstaff propped against the back, and himself in another with one leg swinging over the arm. "The Guards at the Palace seemed to think the White Tower had stolen Elayne." Thom eyed the roll of fireworks uneasily, looked at his smoking pipe, and muttered to himself before going back "Hardly that," Gill said, "but the whole city knows she disappeared from the Tower. Thom says shes returned, but weve heard none of that here. Perhaps Morgase knows, but everyone down to a stableboy is stepping lightly so she doesnt snap off his head. Lord Gaebril has kept her from actually sending anyone to the headsman, but Id not say she would not do it. And he has certainly not soothed her temper toward Tar Valon. If anything, I think he has made it worse." "Morgase has a new advisor," Thom said in a dry voice. "Gareth Bryne did not like him, so Bryne has been retired to his estate to watch his sheep grow wool. Basel, are you going to place a stone or not?" "In a moment, Thom. In a moment. I want to set it right." Gill clamped his teeth around his pipestem and frowned at the board, puffing up smoke. "So the Queen has an advisor who doesnt like Tar Valon," Mat said. "Well, that explains the way the Guards acted when I said I came from there." "If you told them that," Gill said, "you might be lucky you escaped without any broken bones. If it was any of the new men, at least. Gaebril has replaced half the Guards in Caemlyn with men of his choosing, and that is no mean feat considering how short a time he has been here. Some say Morgase may marry him." He started to put a stone on the board, then took it back with a shake of his head. "Times change. People change. Too much change for me. I suppose I am growing old." "You seem to mean us both to grow old before you place a stone," Thom muttered. The cat stretched and slinked across the table for him to stroke her back. "Talking all day will not let you find a good move. Why dont you just admit defeat, Basel?" "I never admit defeat," Gill said stoutly. "Ill beat you yet, Thom." He set a white stone on the intersection of two lines. "You will see." Thom snorted. From what Mat could see of the board, he did not think Gill had much chance. "I will just have to avoid the Guards and put Elaynes letter right into Morgases hands." Especially if theyre all like that fat fool. Light, I wonder if hes told them all Im a Darkfriend? "You did not deliver it?" Thom barked. "I thought you were anxious to be rid of the thing." "You have a letter from the DaughterHeir?" Gill exclaimed. "Thom, why did you not tell me?" "I am sorry, Basel," the gleeman muttered. He glared at Mat from under those bushy eyebrows and blew out his mustaches. "The boy thinks someone is out to kill him over it, so I thought Id let him say what he wanted and no more. Seems he does not care any longer." "What kind of letter?" Gill asked. "Is she coming home? And Lord Gawyn? I hope they are. Ive actually heard talk of war with Tar Valon, as if anyone could be fool enough to go to war with Aes Sedai. If you ask me, it is all one with those mad rumors weve heard about Aes Sedai supporting a false Dragon somewhere in the, west, and using the Power as a weapon. Not that I can see why that would make anyone want to go to war with them; just the opposite." "Are you married to Coline?" Mat asked, and Master Gill gave a start. "The Light preserve me from that! You would think the inn was hers now. If she was my wife...! What does that have to do with the DaughterHeirs letter?" "Nothing," Mat said, "but you went on so long, I thought you must have forgotten your own questions." Gill made a choking sound, and Thom barked a laugh. Mat hurried on before the innkeeper could speak. "The letter is sealed; Elayne did not tell me what it says." Thom was eyeing him sideways and stroking his mustaches. Does he think Ill admit we opened the thing? "But I dont think she is coming home. She means to be Aes Sedai, if you ask me." He told them about his attempt to deliver the letter, smoothing over a few edges they had no need to know about. "The new men," Gill said. "That officer sounds it, at least. Ill wager on it. No better than brigands, most of them, except the ones with a sly eye. You wait until this afternoon, lad, when the Guards on the gate will have changed. Say the DaughterHeirs name right out, and just in case the new fellow is one of Gaebrils men, too, duck your head a little. A knuckle to your forehead, and youll have no trouble." "Burn me if I will. I pull wool and scratch gravel for nobody. Not to Morgase herself. This time, Ill not go near the Guards at all." I would just as soon not know what word that fat fellow has spread. They stared at him as if he were mad. "How under the Light," Gill said, "do you mean to enter the Royal Palace without passing the Guards?" His eyes widened as if he were remembering something. "Light, you dont mean to... Lad, youd need the Dark Ones own luck to escape with your life!" "What are you going on about now, Basel? Mat, what fool thing do you intend to try?" "I am lucky, Master Gill," Mat said. "You just have a good meal waiting when I come back." As he stood, he picked up the dice cup and spun the dice out beside the stones board for luck. The calico cat leaped down, hissing at him with her back arched. The five spotted dice came to rest, each showing a single pip. The Dark Ones Eyes. "Thats the best toss or the worst," Gill said. "It depends on the game you are playing, doesnt it. Lad, I think you mean to play a dangerous game. Why dont you take that cup out into the common room and lose a few coppers? You look to me like a fellow who might like a little gamble. I will see the letter gets to the Palace safely." "Coline wants you to clean the drains," Mat told him, and turned to Thom while the innkeeper was still blinking and muttering to himself. "It doesnt seem to make any odds whether I get an arrow in me trying to deliver that letter or a knife in my back waiting. Its six up, and a half dozen down. Just you have that meal waiting, Thom." He tossed a gold mark on the table in front of Gill. "Have my things put in a room, innkeeper. If it takes more coin, you will have it. Be careful of the big roll; it frightens Thom something awful." d out, he heard Gill say to Thom, "I always thought that lad was a rascal. How does he come by gold?" I always win, thats how, he thought grimly. I just have to win once more, and Im done with Elayne, and thats the last of the White Tow PROLOGUE 1 2 3 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 20 21 22 23 24 25 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 House, so it was me that the Guild held responsible 42 43 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56Back to Table of contentTOP AUTHORSTerry PratchettDarren ShanSamantha YoungGav ThorpePamela PalmerGene WolfeF. Paul WilsonAmanda MaxlynJodi Ellen MalpasJill ShalvisSusan HillSherrilyn KenyonMegan ShepherdColleen GleasonKylie ScottCourtney SummersElizabeth KostovaYanna LeeTobias S. BuckellJennifer EstepGeorgia CatesEmma ChaseJ.C. ReedC.J. EllissonBrent WeeksKendare BlakeSam SykesMeg CabotNicole Peeler Philip AthansLauren KateS.D. PerryMax BrooksFritz LeiberMaryJanice DavidsonJames S.A. CoreyR.K. LilleyMolly McAdamsRobert McCammonKatja Millay < Copyright © novelfull thefreeonlinenovel.com All Rights Reserved.