 Toggle navigationHomeLatest UpdateAdventureChristianFantasyHistoricalHorrorHumorousMysteryRomanceScience FictionThrillerWesternYoung AdultTop BooksPreySphereBlack RoseThe Great Train RobberyBlue DahliaCarnal InnocenceDance Upon the AirHigh NoonLawlessSacred SinsTributeFace the FireHolding the DreamA Man for AmandaAll the PossibilitiesNextThe Great Hunt 33 () 33 (Leaf) A Message From the Dark "Have you found it?" Rand asked as he followed Hurin down a cramped flight of stairs. The kitchens lay on the lower levels, and the servants who had come attending the guests had all been sent there. "Or is Mat really hurt?" "Oh, Mats fine, Lord Rand." The sniffer frowned. "At least, he sounds all right, and he grumbles like a hale man. I didnt mean to worry you, but I needed a reason for you to come below. I found the trail easy enough. The men who set fire to the inn all entered a walled garden behind the manor. Trollocs joined them, went in to the garden with them. Sometime yesterday, I think. Maybe even night before last." He hesitated. "Lord Rand, they didnt come out again. They must still be in there." At the foot of the stairs the sounds of the servants enjoying themselves drifted down the hall, laughter and singing. Someone had a bittern, strumming a raucous tune to clapping and the thump of dancing. There was no worked plaster or fine tapestries here, only bare stone and plain wood. Light in the halls came from rush torches, smoking the ceiling and spread far enough apart that the light faded between them. "Im glad you are talking to me naturally again," Rand said. "The way you have been bowing and scraping, I was beginning to think you were more Cairhienin than the Cairhienin." Hurins face colored. "Well, as to that ..." He glanced down the hall toward the noise and looked as if he wanted to spit. "They all pretend to be so proper, but ... Lord Rand, every one of them says hes loyal to his master or mistress, but they all hint theyre willing to sell what they know, or have heard. And when they have a few drinks in them, theyll tell you, all whispering in your ear, things about the lords and ladies they serve thatd fair make your hair stand on end. I know theyre Cairhienin, but I never heard of such goings on." "We will be out of here soon, Hurin." Rand hoped it was true. "Where is this garden?" Hurin turned down a side hall leading toward the back of the manor. "Did you bring Ingtar and the others down already?" The sniffer shook his head. "Lord Ingtar had let himself be cornered by six or seven of those who call themselves ladies. I couldnt get close enough to speak to him. And Verin Sedai was with Barthanes. She gave me such a look when I came near, I never even tried to tell her." another corner just then, and there were Loial and Mat, the Ogier standing a little stooped for the lower ceiling. Loials grin almost split his face. "There you are. Rand, I was never so glad to get away from anyone as from those people upstairs. They kept asking me if the Ogier were coming back, and if Galldrian had agreed to pay what was owed. It seems the reason all the Ogier stonemasons left is because Galldrian stopped paying them, except with promises. I kept telling them I didnt know anything about it, but half of them seemed to think that I was lying, and the other half that I was hinting at something." "Well be out of here soon," Rand assured him. "Mat, are you all right?" His friends face looked more hollowcheeked than he remembered, even back at the inn, and his "I feel fine," Mat said grumpily, "but I certainly didnt have any trouble leaving the other servants. The ones who werent asking if you starved me thought I was sick and didnt want to come too close." "Have you sensed the dagger?" Rand asked. Mat shook his head glumly. "The only thing Ive sensed is that somebodys watching me, most of the time. These people are as bad as Fades for sneaking around. Burn me, I nearly jumped out of my skin when Hurin told me hed located the Darkfriends trail. Rand, I cant feel it at all, and Ive been through this bloody building from rafters to basement." "That does not mean it isnt here, Mat. I put it in the chest with the Horn, remember. Maybe that keeps you from feeling it. I dont think Fain knows how to open it, else hed not have gone to the trouble of carrying the weight when he fled Fal Dara. Even that much gold isnt important beside the Horn of Valere. When we find the Horn, we will find the dagger. Youll see." "As long as I dont have to pretend to be your servant anymore," Mat muttered. "As long as you dont go mad and ... " He let the words die with a twist of his mouth. "Rand is not mad, Mat," Loial said. "The Cairhienin would never have let him in here if he were not a lord. They are the ones who are mad." "Im not mad," Rand said harshly. "Not yet. Hurin, show me this garden." "This way, Lord Rand." They went out into the night by a small door that Rand had to duck to get through; Loial was forced to bend over and hunch his shoulders. There was enough light in yellow pools from the windows above for Rand to make out brick walks between square flower beds. The shadows of stables and other outbuildings bulked in the darkness to either side. Occasional fragments of music drifted out, from the servants below or from those entertaining their masters above. Hurin led them along the walks until even the dim glow failed and they made their way by moonlight alone, their boots crunching softly on the brick. Bushes that would have been bright with flowers by daylight now made strange humps in the dark. Rand fingered his sword and did not let his eyes stay on any one spot too long. A hundred Trollocs could be hiding around them unseen. He knew Hurin would have smelled Trollocs if they were there, but that did not help a great deal. If Barthanes was a Darkfriend, then at least some of his servants and guards had to be, too, and Hurin could not always smell a Darkfriend. Darkfriends leaping out of the night would not be much better than Trollocs. "There, Lord Rand," Hurin whispered, pointing. Ahead, stone walls not much higher than Loials head enclosed a square perhaps fifty paces on a side. Rand could not be sure, in the shadows, but it looked as if the gardens stretched on beyond the walls. He wondered why Barthanes had built a walled enclosure in the middle of his garden. No roof showed above the wall. Why would they go in there and stay? Loial bent to put his mouth close to Rands ear. "I told you this was all an Ogier grove, once. Rand, the Waygate is within that wall. I can feel it." Rand heard Mat sigh despairingly. "We cant give up, Mat," he said. "Im not giving up. I just have enough brains not to want to travel the Ways again." "We may have to," Rand told him. "Go find Ingtar and Verin. Get them alone somehow - I dont care how - and tell them I think Fain has taken the Horn through a Waygate. Just dont let anyone else hear. And remember to limp; you are supposed to have had a fall." It was a wonder to him that even Fain would risk the Ways, but it seemed the only answer. They wouldnt spend a day and a night just sitting in there, without a roof over their heads. Mat swept a low bow, and his voice was heavy with sarcasm. "At once, my Lord. As my Lord wishes. Shall I carry your banner, my Lord?" He started back for the manor, his grumbles fading away. "Now I have to limp. Next itll be a broken neck, or ..." "Hes just worried about the dagger, Rand," Loial said. "I know," Rand said. But how long before he tells somebody what I am, not even meaning to? He could not believe Mat would betray him on purpose; there was that much of their friendship left, at least. "Loial, boost me up where I can see over the wall." "Rand, if the Darkfriends are still -" "They arent. Boost me up, Loial." The three of them moved close to the wall, and Loial made a stirrup with his hands for Rands foot. The Ogier straightened easily with the weight, lifting Rands head just high enough to see over the top of the wall. The thin, waning moon gave little light, and most of the area was in shadow, but there did not seem to be any flowers or shrubs inside the walled square. Only a lone bench of pale marble, placed as if one man might sit on it to stare at what stood in the middle of the space like a huge upright stone slab. the top of the wall and pulled himself up. Loial gave a low hsst and grabbed at his foot, but he jerked free and rolled over the wall, dropping inside. There was closecropped grass under his feet; he thought vaguely that Barthanes must let sheep in, at least. Staring at the shadowed stone slab, the Waygate, he was startled to hear boots thump to the ground beside him. Hurin climbed to his feet, dusting himself off. "You should be careful doing that, Lord Rand. Could be anybody hiding in here. Or anything." He peered into the darkness within the walls, feeling at his belt as if for the short sword and swordbreaker he had had to leave at the inn; servants did not go armed in Cairhien. "Jump in a hole without looking, and therell be a snake in it every time." "You would smell them," Rand said. "Maybe." The sniffer inhaled deeply. "But I can only smell what theyve done, not what they intend." There was a scraping sound from over Rands head, and then Loial was letting himself down from the wall. The Ogier did not even have to straighten his arms completely before his boots touched the ground. "Rash," he muttered. "You humans are always so rash and hasty. And now you have me doing it. Elder Haman would speak to me severely, and my mother ..." The darkness hid his face, but Rand was sure his ears were twitching vigorously. "Rand, if you dont start being a little careful, you are going to get me in trouble." Rand walked to the Waygate, walked all the way around it. Even close up it looked like nothing more than a thick square of stone, taller than he was. The back was smooth and cool to the touch - he only brushed his hand against it quickly - but the front had been carved by an artists hands. Vines, leaves, and flowers covered it, each so finely done that in the dim moonlight they seemed almost real. He felt the ground in front of it; the grass had been scraped partly away in two arcs such as those ga "Is that a Waygate?" Hurin asked uncertainly. "Ive heard tell of them, of course, but ..." He sniffed the air. "The trail goes right to it and stops, Lord Rand. How are we going to follow them, now? Ive heard if you go through a Waygate, you come out mad, if you come out at all." "It can be done, Hurin. Ive done it, and Loial, and Mat and Perrin." Rand never took his eyes from the tangles of leaves on the stone. There was one unlike any other carved there, he knew. The trefoil leaf of fabled Avendesora, the Tree of Life. He put his hand on it. "Ill bet you can smell their trail along the Ways. We can follow anywhere they can run." It would not hurt to prove to himself that he could make himself step through a Waygate. "Ill prove it to you." He heard Hurin groan. The leaf was worked in the stone just as the others were, but it came away in his hand. Loial groaned, too. In an instant the illusion of living plants seemed suddenly real. Stone leaves appeared to stir with a breeze, flowers appeared to have color even in the dark. Down the center of the mass a line appeared, and the two halves of the slab swung slowly toward Rand. He stepped back to let them open. He did not find himself looking at the other side of the walled square, but neither did he see the dull silver reflection he remembered. The space between the opening gates was a black so dark it seemed to make the night around it lighter. The pitchblackness oozed out between the stillmoving gates. Rand leaped back with a shout, dropping the Avendesora leaf in his haste, and Loial cried out, "Machin Shin. The Black Wind." The sound of wind filled their ears; the grass stirred in ripples toward the walls, and dirt swirled up, sucked into the air. And in the wind a thousand insane voices seemed to cry, ten thousand, overlapping, drowning each other. Rand could make out some of them, though he tried not to. ... blood so sweet, so sweet to drink the blood, the blood that drips, drips, drops so red; pretty eyes, fine eyes, I have no eyes, pluck the eyes from out of your head; grind your bones, split your bones inside your flesh, suck your marrow while you scream; scream, scream, singing screams, sing your screams... And worst of all, a whispering thread through all the rest. AlThor. AlThor. AlThor. Rand found the void around him and embraced it, never minding the tantalizing, sickening glow of saidin just out of his sight. Greatest of all the dangers along the Ways was the Black Wind that took the souls of those it killed, and drove mad those it let live, but Machin Shin was a part of the Ways; it could not leave them. Only it was flowing into the night, and the Black Wind called his name. The Waygate was not yet fully open. If they could only put the Avendesora leaf back ... He saw Loial scrambling on his hands and knees, fumbling and searching the grass in the darkness. Saidin filled him. He felt as if his bones were vibrating, felt the redhot, icecold flow of the One Power, felt truly alive as he never was without it, felt the oilslick taint ... No! And silently he screamed back at himself from beyond the emptiness, Its coming for you! Itll kill all of us! He hurled it all at the black bulge, standing out a full span from the Waygate, now. He did not know what it was that he hurled, or how, but in the heart of that darkness bloomed a coruscating fountain of light. The Black Wind shrieked, ten thousand wordless howls of agony. Slowly, giving way inch by reluctant inch, the bulge lessened; slowly the oozing reversed, back into the stillopen Waygate. The Power raced through Rand in a torrent. He could feel the link between himself and saidin, like a river in flood, between himself and the pure fire blazing in the heart of the Black Wind, a raging cataract. The heat inside him went to whiteheat, and beyond, to a shimmer that would have melted stone and vaporized steel and made the air burst into flame. The cold grew till the breath in his lungs should have frozen solid and hard as metal. He could feel it overwhelming him, feel life eroding like a soft clay riverbank, feel what was him wearing away. Cant stop! If it gets out ... Have to kill it! I - can - not - stop! Desperately he clung to fragments of himself. The One Power roared through him; he rode it like a chip of wood in rapids. The void began to melt and flow; the emptiness steamed with freezing cold. The motion of the Waygate halted, and reversed. Rand stared, sure, in the dim thoughts floating outside the void, that he was only seeing what he wanted to see. The gates drifted closer together, pushing back Machin Shin as if the Black Wind had solid substance. The inferno still roared in its breast. With a vague, distant wondering, Rand saw Loial, still on hands and knees, backing away from the closing gates. The gap narrowed, vanished. The leaves and vines merged into a solid wall, and were stone. Rand felt the link between him and the fire snap, the flow of Power through him cease. A moment more, and it would have swept him away completely. Shaking, he dropped to his knees. It was still there inside. Saidin. No longer flowing, but there, in a pool. He was a pool of the One Power. He trembled with it. He could smell the grass, the dirt beneath, the stone of the walls. Even in the darkness he could see each blade of grass, separate and whole, all of them at once. He could feel each minute stirring of the air on his face. His tongue curdled with the taste of the taint; his stomach knotted and spasmed. Frantically he clawed his way out of the void; still on his knees, not moving, he fought free . And then all that was left was the fading foulness on his tongue, and the cramping in his stomach, and the memory. So - alive. "You saved us, Builder." Hurin had his back pressed against the wall, and his voice was hoarse. "That thing - that was the Black Wind? - it was worse than - was it going to hurl that fire at us? Lord Rand! Did it harm you? Did it touch you?" He came running as Rand got to his feet, helping him the last bit. Loial was getting up, too, dusting his hands and his knees. "Well never follow Fain through that." Rand touched Loials arm. "Thank you. You did save us." You saved me, at least. It was killing me. Killing me, and it felt - wonderful. He swallowed; a faint trace of the taste still coated his mouth. "I want something to drink." "I only found the leaf and put it back," Loial said, shrugging. "It seemed that if we could not get the Waygate closed, it would kill us. I am afraid Im not a very good hero, Rand. I was so afraid I could hardly think." re both afraid," Rand said. "We may be a poor pair of heroes, but we are what there is. Its a good thing "Lord Rand," Hurin said diffidently, "could we - leave, now?" The sniffer made a fuss about Rand going over the wall first, with not knowing who was waiting outside, until Rand pointed out that he had the only weapon among them. Even then Hurin did not seem to like letting Loial lift Rand to catch the top of the wall and pull himself over. Rand landed on his feet with a thud, listening and peering into the night. For a moment he thought he saw something move, heard a boot scrape on the brick walk, but neither was repeated, and he dismissed it as nervousness. He thought that he had a right to be nervous. He turned to help Hurin down. "Lord Rand," the sniffer said as soon as his feet were solidly on the ground, "how are we going to follow them now? From what Ive heard of those things, the whole lot of them could be halfway across the world by now, in any direction." "Verin will know a way." Rand suddenly wanted to laugh; to find the Horn and the dagger - if they could be found, now - he had to go back to the Aes Sedai. They had let him loose, and now he had to go back. "I wont let Mat die without trying." Loial joined them, and they went back toward the manor, to be met at the small door by Mat, who opened it just as Rand reached for the handle. "Verin says youre not to do anything. If Hurins found where the Horn is kept, then she says thats all we can do, now. She says well leave as soon as you come back, and make a plan. And I say this is the last time I go running back and forth with messages. If you want to say something to somebody, you can talk to them yourself from now on." Mat peered past them into the darkness. "Is the Horn out there somewhere? In an outbuilding? Did you see the dagger?" Rand turned him around and got him back inside. "It isnt in an outbuilding, Mat. I hope Verin has a good idea of what to do now; I dont have any." Mat looked as if he wanted to ask questions, but he let himself be pushed along the dimly lit corridor. He even remembered to limp as they started upstairs. When Rand and the others reentered the rooms filled with nobles, they received a number of looks. Rand wondered if they somehow knew something of what had happened outside, or if he should have sent Hurin and Mat to the front hall to wait, but then he realized the looks were no different from what they had been before, curious and calculating, wondering what the lord and the Ogier had been up to. Servants were invisible to these people. No one tried to approach them, since they were together. It seemed there were protocols to conspiracy in the Great Game; anyone might try to listen to a private conversation, but they would not intrude on it. Verin and Ingtar were standing together, and thus also alone. Ingtar looked a little dazed. Verin gave Rand and the other three a brief glance, frowned at their expressions, then resettled her shawl and started for the entry hall. As they reached it, Barthanes appeared as if someone had told him they were leaving. "You go so soon? Verin Sedai, can I not entreat you to stay longer?" Verin shook her head. "We must go, Lord Barthanes. Ive not been in Cairhien in some years. I was glad of your invitation to young Rand. It has been ... interesting." "Then Grace see you safely to your inn. The Great Tree, is it not? Perhaps you will favor me with your presence again? You would honor me, Verin Sedai, and you, Lord Rand, and you, Lord Ingtar, not to mention you, Loial, son of Arent son of Halan." His bow was a little deeper for the Aes Sedai than for the others, but still no more than a slight inclination. Verin nodded in acknowledgment. "Perhaps. The Light illumine you, Lord Barthanes." She turned for the doors. As Rand moved to follow the others, Barthanes caught his sleeve with two fingers, holding him back. Mat looked as if he might stay, too, until Hurin pulled him to join Verin and the rest. "You wade even deeper in the Game than I thought," Barthanes said softly. "When I heard your name, I could not believe it, yet you came, and you fit the description, and ... I was given a message for you. I think I will deliver it after all." Rand had felt a prickling along his backbone as Barthanes spoke, but at the last, he stared. "A message? From whom? Lady Selene?" "A man. Not the sort for whom I would usually carry messages, but he has ... certain ... claims on me that I cannot ignore. He gave no name, but he was a Lugarder. Aaah! You know him." "I know him." Fain left a message? Rand looked around the wide hall. Mat and Verin and the others were waiting by the doors. Liveried servants stood stiffly along the walls, ready to leap at a command yet appearing neither to hear nor see. The sounds of the gathering floated from deeper in the manor. It did not look like a place where Darkfriends might attack. "What message?" "He says he will wait for you on Toman Head. He has what you seek, and if you want it, you must follow. If you refuse to follow him, he says he will hound your blood, and your people, and those you love until you will face him. It sounds mad, of course, a man like that saying he will hound a lord, and yet, there was something about him. I think he it mad - he even denied you are a lord, as any eye can plainly see - but there is still something. What is it he carries with him, with Trollocs to guard it? What is it you seek?" Barthanes seemed shocked at the directness of his own questions. "The Light illumine you, Lord Barthanes." Rand managed a bow, but his legs wobbled as he joined Verin and the others. He wants me to follow? And hell hurt Emonds Field, Tam, if I dont. He had no doubt Fain could do it, would do it. At least Egwene is safe, in the White Tower. He had sickening images of Trollocs descending in hordes on Emonds Field, of eyeless Fades stalking Egwene. But how can I follow him? How? Then he was out in the night, mounting Red. Verin and Ingtar and the others were all already on their horses, and the escort of Shienarans was closing round them. "What did you find?" Verin demanded. "Where does he keep it?" Hurin cleared his throat loudly, and Loial shifted in his high saddle. The Aes Sedai peered at them. has taken the Horn to Toman Head through a Waygate," Rand said dully. "By this time, hes probably already waiting there for me." "We will speak of this later," Verin said, so firmly that no one spoke at all on the ride back to the city, to The Great Tree. Uno left them there, after a quiet word from Ingtar, taking the soldiers back to their inn in the Foregate. Hurin took one look at Verins set face by the light of the common room, muttered something about ale, and scurried to a table in a corner, alone. The Aes Sedai brushed aside the innkeepers solicitous hopes that she had enjoyed herself, and silently led Rand and the rest t Perrin looked up from The Travels of Jain Farstrider when they walked in, and frowned when he saw their faces. "It didnt go well, did it?" he said, closing the leatherbound book. Lamps and beeswax candles around the room gave a good light; Mistress Tiedra charged heavily, but she did not stint. Verin carefully folded her shawl and laid it across the back of a chair. "Tell me again. The Darkfriends took the Horn through a Waygate? At Barthaness manor?" "The ground under the manor used to be an Ogier grove," Loial explained. "When we built ..." His voice trailed off and his ears wilted under her look. "Hurin followed them right to it." Rand wearily threw himself into a chair. I have to follow more than ever, now. But how? "I opened it to show him he could still follow the trail wherever they went, and the Black Wind was there. It tried to reach us, but Loial managed to close the gates before it could come all the way out." He colored a little at that, but Loial had closed the gates, and for all he knew Machin Shin might have made it out without that. "It was standing guard." "The Black Wind," Mat breathed, frozen halfway into a chair. Perrin was staring at Rand, too. So were Verin and Ingtar. Mat dropped into the chair with a thump. "You must be mistaken," Verin said at last. "Machin Shin could not be used as a guard. No one can constrain the Black Wind to do anything." "Its a creature of the Dark One," Mat said numbly. "Theyre Darkfriends. Maybe they knew how to ask it for help, or make it help." "No one knows exactly what Machin Shin is," Verin said, "unless, perhaps, it is the essence of madness and cruelty. It cannot be reasoned with, Mat, or bargained with, or talked to. It cannot even be forced, not by any Aes Sedai living today, and perhaps not by any who ever lived. Do you really think Padan Fain could do what ten Aes Sedai could not?" Mat shook his head. There was an air of despair in the room, of hope and purpose lost. The goal they had sought had vanished, and even Verins face wore a floundering expression. "Id never have thought Fain had the courage for the Ways." Ingtar sounded almost mild, but suddenly he banged his fist against the wall. "I do not care how, or even if, Machin Shin works on Fains behalf. They have taken the Horn of Valere into the Ways, Aes Sedai. By now they could be in the Blight, or halfway to Tear or Tanchico, or the other side of the Aiel Waste. The Horn is lost. I am lost." His hands dropped to his sides, and his shoulders slumped. "I am lost." "Fain is taking it to Toman Head," Rand said, and was immediately the object of all eyes again. Verin studied him narrowly. "You said that before. How do you know?" "He left a message with Barthanes," Rand said. "A trick," Ingtar sneered. "Hed not tell us where to follow." "I dont know what the rest of you are going to do," Rand said, "but I am going to Toman Head. I have to. I leave at first light." "But, Rand," Loial said, "it will take us months to reach Toman Head. What makes you think Fain will wait there for us?" "He will wait." But how long before he decides Im not coming? Why did he set that guard if he wants me to follow? "Loial, I mean to ride as hard as I can, and if I ride Red to death, Ill buy another horse, or steal another, if I have to. Are you sure you want to come?" "Ive stayed with you this long, Rand. Why would I stop now?" Loial pulled out his pipe and pouch and began thumbing tabac into the big bowl. "You see, I like you. I would like you even if you werent taveren. Maybe I like you despite it. You do seem to get me neckdeep in hot water. In any case, I am going with you." He sucked on the pipestem to test the draw, then took a splinter from the stone jar on the mantel and thrust it into a candle flame for a light. "And I dont think you can really stop me." "Well, Im going," Mat said. "Fain still has that dagger, so Im going. But all that servant business ended tonight." Perrin sighed, an introspective look in his yellow eyes. "I suppose Ill come along, too." After a moment, he grinned. "Somebody has to keep Mat out of trouble." "Not even a clever trick," Ingtar muttered. "Somehow, Ill get Barthanes alone, and I will learn the truth. I mean to have the Horn of Valere, not chase Jak o the Wisps." "It may not be a trick," Verin said carefully, seeming to study the floor under her toes. "There were certain things left in the dungeons at Fal Dara, writings that indicated a connection between what happened that night and" - she gave Rand a quick glance under lowered brows - "Toman Head. I still do not understand them completely, but I believe we must go to Toman Head. And I believe we will find the Horn there." "Even if they are going to Toman Head," Ingtar said, "by the time we reach it, Fain or one of the other Darkfriends could have blown the Horn a hundred times, and the heroes returned from the grave will ride for the Shadow." could have blown the Horn a hundred times since leaving Fal Dara," Verin told him. "And I think he would have, if he could open the chest. What we must worry about is that he might find someone who does know how to open it. We must follow him along the Ways." Perrins head came up sharply, and Mat shifted in his chair. Loial gave a low moan. "Even if we could somehow sneak past Barthaness guards," Rand said, "I think well find Machin Shin still there. We cannot use the Ways." "How many of us could sneak onto Barthaness grounds?" Verin said dismissively. "There are other Waygates. Stedding Tsofu lies not far from the city, south and east. It is a young stedding, rediscovered only perhaps six hundred years ago, but the Ogier Elders were still growing the Ways, then. Stedding Tsofu will have a Waygate. It is there and we will ride at first light." Loial made a slightly louder sound, and Rand was not sure whether it referred to the Waygate or the stedding. Ingtar still did not seem convinced, but Verin was as smooth and as implacable as snow sliding down a mountainside. "You will have your soldiers ready to ride, Ingtar. Send Hurin to tell Uno before he goes to bed. I think we should all go to bed as soon as possible. These Darkfriends have gained at least a day on us already, and I mean to make up as much of it as I can tomorrow." So firm was the plump Aes Sedais manner that she was already herding Ingtar to the door bef Rand followed the others out, but at the door he stopped beside the Aes Sedai and watched Mat heading down the candlelit hall. "Why does he look like that?" he asked her. "I thought you Healed him, enough to give him some time, anyway." She waited until Mat and the others had turned up the stairs before speaking. "Apparently, it did not work so well as we believed. The sickness takes an interesting course in him. His strength remains; he will keep that to the end, I think. But his body wastes away. Another few weeks, at most, I would say. You see, there is reason for haste." "I do not need another spur, Aes Sedai," Rand said, making the title sound hard. Mat. The Horn. Fains threat. Light, Egwene! Burn me, I dont need another spur. "And what of you, Rand alThor? Do you feel well? Do you fight it still, or have you yet surrendered to the Wheel?" "I ride with you to find the Horn," he told her. "Beyond that, there is nothing between me and any Aes Sedai. Do you understand me? Nothing!" She did not speak, and he walked away from her, but when he turned to take the stairs she was still watching him, dark eyes sharp and considering. PROLOGUE