 Toggle navigationHomeLatest UpdateAdventureChristianFantasyHistoricalHorrorHumorousMysteryRomanceScience FictionThrillerWesternYoung AdultTop BooksPreySphereBlack RoseThe Great Train RobberyBlue DahliaCarnal InnocenceDance Upon the AirHigh NoonLawlessSacred SinsTributeFace the FireHolding the DreamA Man for AmandaAll the PossibilitiesNextThe Great Hunt 26 () 26 (Harp) Discord Rand darted through the common room of The Defender of the Dragonwall and hurried upstairs, grinning at the startled look the innkeeper had given him. Rand wanted to grin at everything. Thoms alive! He flung open the door to his room and went straight to the wardrobe. Loial and Hurin put their heads in from the other room, both in their shirtsleeves and with pipes in their teeth trailing thin streams of smoke. "Has something happened, Lord Rand?" Hurin asked anxiously. Rand slung the bundle made from Thoms cloak on his shoulder. "The best thing that could, next to Ingtar coming. Thom Merrilins alive. And hes here, in Cairhien." "The gleeman you told me about?" Loial said. "That is wonderful, Rand. I would like to meet him." "Then come with me, if Hurins willing to keep watch awhile." "It would be a pleasure, Lord Rand. " Hurin took the pipe out of his mouth. "That lot in the common room kept trying to pump me - without letting on what they were doing, of course - about who you are, my Lord, and why were in Cairhien. I told them we were waiting here to meet friends, but being Cairhienin, they figured I was hiding something deeper." "Let them think what they want. Come on, Loial." "I think not." The Ogier sighed. "I really would rather stay here." He raised a book with a thick finger marking his place. "I can meet Thom Merrilin some other time." "Loial, you cant stay cooped up in here forever. We do not even know how long well be in Cairhien. Anyway, we didnt see any Ogier. And if we do, they would not be hunting for you, would they?" "Not hunting, precisely, but ... Rand, I may have been too hasty in leaving Stedding Shangtai the way I did. When I do go home, I may be in a great deal of trouble." His ears wilted. "Even if I wait until Im as old as Elder Haman. Perhaps I could find an abandoned stedding to stay in until then." der Haman wont let you come back, you can live in Emonds Field. Its a pretty place." A beautiful place. "I am sure it is, Rand, but that would never work. You see -" "We will talk about it when it comes to that, Loial. Now you are coming to see Thom." The Ogier stood half again as tall as Rand, but Rand pushed him into his long tunic and cloak and down the stairs. When they came pounding through the common room, Rand winked at the innkeeper, then laughed at his startled look. Let him think Im off to play his bloody Great Game. Let him think what he wants. Thoms alive. Once through the Jangai Gate, in the east wall of the city, everyone seemed to know The Bunch of Grapes. Rand and Loial quickly found themselves there, on a street that was quiet for the Foregate, with the sun halfway down the afternoon sky. It was an old threestory structure, wooden and rickety, but the common room was clean and full of people. Some men were playing at dice in one corner, and some women at darts in another. Half had the look of Cairhienin, slight and pale, but Rand heard Andoran accents as well as others he did not know. All wore the clothes of the Foregate, though, a blend of the styles of half a dozen countries. A few looked around when he and Loial came in, but they all turned back to what they had been doing. The innkeeper was a woman with hair as white as Thoms, and sharp eyes that studied Loial as well as Rand. She was not Cairhienin, by her dark skin and her speech. "Thom Merrilin? Aye, he has a room. Top of the stairs, first door on the right. Likely Dena will let you wait for him there" - she eyed Rands red coat, with its herons on the high collar and golden brambles embroidered up the sleeves, and his sword - "my Lord." The stairs creaked under Rands boots, let alone Loials. Rand was not sure if the building would stand up much longer. He found the door and knocked, wondering who Dena was. "Come in," a womans voice called. "I cannot open it for you." Rand opened the door hesitantly and put his head in. A big, rumpled bed was shoved against one wall, and the rest of the room was all but taken up by a pair of wardrobes, several brassbound trunks and chests, a table and two wooden chairs. The slender woman sitting crosslegged on the bed with her skirts tucked under her was keeping six colored balls spinning in "Whatever it is," she said, looking at her juggling, "leave it on the table. Thom will pay you when he comes back." "Are you Dena?" Rand asked. She snatched the balls out of the air and turned to regard him. She was only a handful of years older than he, pretty, with fair Cairhienin skin and dark hair hanging loose to her shoulders. "I do not know you. This is my room, mine and Thom Merrilins." "The innkeeper said you might let us wait here for Thom," Rand said. "If youre Dena?" "Us?" Rand moved into the room so Loial could duck inside, and the young womans eyebrows lifted. "So the Ogier have come back. I am Dena. What do you want?" She looked at Rands coat so deliberately that the failure to add "my Lord" had to be purposeful, though her brows went up again at the herons on his scabbard and sword hilt. Rand hefted the bundle he carried. "Ive brought Thom back his harp and his flute. And I want to visit with him," he added quickly; she seemed on the point of telling him to leave them. "I havent seen him in a long time." She eyed the bundle. "Thom always moans about losing the best flute and the best harp he ever had. You would think he was a courtbard, the way he carries on. Very well. You can wait, but I must practice. Thom says he will let me perform in the halls next week." She rose gracefully and took one of the two chairs, motioning Loial to sit on the bed. "Zera would make Thom pay for six chairs if you broke one of these, friend Ogier." Rand gave their names as he sat in the other chair - it creaked alarmingly under even his weight - and asked doubtfully, "Are you Thoms apprentice?" Dena gave a small smile. "You might say that." She had resumed her juggling, and her eyes were on the whirling balls. "I have never heard of a woman gleeman," Loial said. "I will be the first." The one big circle became two smaller, overlapping circles. "I will see the whole world before I am done. Thom says once we have enough money, we will go down to Tear." She switched to juggling three balls in each hand. "And then maybe out to the Sea Folks islands. The Athaan Miere pay gleemen well." Rand eyed the room, with all the chests and trunks. It did not look like the room of someone intending to move on soon. There was even a flower growing in a pot on the windowsill. His gaze fell on the single big bed, where Loial was sitting. This is my room, mine and Thom Merrilins. Dena gave him a challenging look through the large wheel she had resumed. Rands face reddened. He cleared his throat. "Maybe we ought to wait downstairs," he began when the door opened and Thom came in with his cloak flapping around his ankles, patches fluttering. Cased flute and harp hung on his back; the cases were reddish wood, polished by handling. Dena made the balls disappear inside her dress and ran to throw her arms around Thoms neck, standing atiptoe to do it. "I missed you," she said, and kissed him. The kiss went on for some time, so long that Rand was beginning to wonder if he and Loial should leave, but Dena let her heels drop to the floor with a sigh. "Do you know what that lackwit Seaghans done now, girl?" Thom said, looking down at her. "Hes taken on a pack of louts who call themselves players. They walk around pretending to be Rogosh Eagleeye, and Blaes, and Gaidal Cain, and... Aaagh! They hang a scrap of painted canvas behind them, supposed to make the audience believe these fools are in Matuchin Hall, or the high passes of the Mountains of Dhoom. I make the listener see every banner, smell every battle, feel every emotion. I make them believe they are Gaidal Cain. Seaghan will have his hall torn down around his ears if he puts this lot on to follow me." "Thom, we have visitors. Loial, son of Arent son of Halan. Oh, and a boy who calls himself Rand alThor." Thom looked over her head at Rand, frowning. "Leave us for a while, Dena. Here." He pressed some silver coins into her hand. "Your knives are ready. Why dont you go pay Ivon for them?" He brushed her smooth cheek with a gnarled knuckle. "Go on. Ill make it up to you." She gave him a dark look, but she tossed her cloak around her shoulders, muttering, "Ivon better have the balance right." "Shell be a bard one day," Thom said with a note of pride after she was gone. "She listens to a tale once - once only, mind! - and she has it right, not just the words, but every nuance, every rhythm. She has a fine hand on the harp, and she played the flute better the first time she picked it up than you ever did." He set the wooden instrument cases atop one of the larger trunks, then dropped into the chair she had abandoned. "When I passed through Caemlyn on the way here, Basel Gill told me youd left in company with an Ogier. Among others." He bowed toward Loial, even managing a flourish of his cloak despite the fact that he was sitting on it. "I am pleased to meet you, Loial, son of Arent son of Halan." "And I to meet you, Thom Merrilin." Loial stood to make his bow in return; when he straightened, his head almost brushed the ceiling, and he quickly sat down again. "The young woman said she wants to be a gleeman." Thoms head shake was disparaging. "Thats no life for a woman. Not much of a life for a man, for that. Wandering from town to town, village to village, wondering how theyll try to cheat you this time, half the time wondering where your next meal is coming from. No, Ill talk her around. Shell be Courtbard to a king or a queen before shes done. Aaaah! You didnt come here to talk about Dena. My instruments, boy. Youve brought them?" Rand pushed the bundle across the table. Thom undid it hurriedly - he blinked when he saw it was his old cloak, all covered with colorful patches like the one he wore - and opened the hard leather flute case, nodding at the sight of the goldandsilver flute nestled inside. ned my bed and meals with that after we parted," Rand said. "I know," the gleeman replied dryly. "I stopped at some of the same inns, but I had to make do with juggling and a few simple stories since you had my - You didnt touch the harp?" He pulled open the other dark leather case and took out a goldandsilver harp as ornate as the flute, cradling it in his hands like a baby. "Your clumsy sheepherders fingers were never "I didnt touch it," Rand assured him. Thom plucked two strings, wincing. "At least you could have kept it in tune," he muttered. Rand leaned across the table toward him. "Thom, you wanted to go to Illian, to see the Great Hunt set out, and be one of the first to make new stories about it, but you couldnt. What would you say if I told you you could still be a part of it? A big part?" Loial stirred uneasily. "Rand, are you sure ... ?" Rand waved him to silence, his eyes on Thom. Thom glanced at the Ogier and frowned. "That would depend on what part, and how. If youve reason to believe one of the Hunters is coming this way ... I suppose they could have left Illian already, but hed be weeks reaching here if he rode straight on, and why would he? Is this one of the fellows who never went to Illian? Hell never make it into the stories without the blessing, whatever he does." "It doesnt matter if the Hunt has left Illian or not." Rand heard Loials breath catch. "Thom, we have the Horn of Valere." For a moment there was dead silence. Thom broke it with a great guffaw of laughter. "You two have the Horn? A shepherd and a beardless Ogier have the Horn of ..." He doubled over, pounding his knee. "The Horn of Valere!" "But we do have it," Loial said seriously. Thom drew a deep breath. Small aftershocks of laughter still seemed to catch him unaware. "I dont know what you found, but I can take you to ten taverns where a fellow will tell you that he knows a man who knows the man whos already found the Horn, and he will tell you how it was found, too - as long as you buy his ale. I can take you to three men who will sell you the Horn, and swear their souls under the Light its the real one and true. There is even a lord in the city has what he claims is the Horn locked up inside his manor. He says its a treasure handed down in his House since the Breaking. I dont know if the Hunters will ever find the Horn, but they will hunt down ten thousand lies along the way." "Moiraine says its the Horn," Rand said. Thoms mirth was cut short. "She does, does she? I thought you said she was not with you." "She isnt, Thom. I have not seen her since I left Fal Dara, in Shienar, and for a month before that she said no more than two words together to me." He could not keep the bitterness out of his voice. And when she did talk, I wished shed kept on ignoring me . Ill never dance to her tune again, the Light burn her and every other Aes Sedai. No. Not Egwene. Not Nynaeve. He was conscious of Thom watching him closely. "She isnt here, Thom. I do not know where she is, and I do not care." "Well, at least you have sense enough to keep it secret. If you hadnt, it would be all over the Foregate by now, and half a Cairhien would be lying in wait to take it away. Half the world." "Oh, weve kept it secret, Thom. And I have to bring it back to Fal Dara without Darkfriends or anyone else taking it away. Thats story enough for you right there, isnt it? I could use a friend who knows the world. Youve been everywhere; you know things I cant even imagine. Loial and Hurin know more than I do, but were all three floundering in deep water." "Hurin ... ? No, dont tell me how. I do not want to know. " The gleeman pushed back his chair and went to stare out of the window. "The Horn of Valere. That means the Last Battle is coming. Who will notice? Did you see the people laughing in the streets out there? Let the grain barges stop a week, and they wont laugh. Galldrian will think theyve all become Aiel. The nobles all play the Game of Houses, scheming to get close to the King, scheming to gain more power than the King, scheming to pull down Galldrian and be the next King. Or Queen. They will think Tarmon Gaidon is only a ploy in the Game." He turned away from the window. "I dont suppose you are talking about simply riding to Shienar and handing the Horn to - who? - the King? Why Shienar? The legends all tie the Horn to Illian." Rand looked at Loial. The Ogiers ears were sagging. "Shienar, because I know who to give it to, there. And there are Trollocs and Darkfriends after us." "Why does that not surprise me? No. I may be an old fool, but I will be an old fool in my own way. You take the glory, boy." "Thom -" "No!" There was a silence, broken only by the creaking of the bed as Loial shifted. Finally, Rand said, "Loial, would you mind leaving Thom and me alone for a bit? Please?" Loial looked surprised - the tufts on his ears went almost to points - but he nodded and rose. "That dice game in the common room looked interesting. Perhaps they will let me play." Thom eyed Rand suspiciously as the door closed behind the Ogier. Rand hesitated. There were things he needed to know, things he was sure Thom knew - the gleeman had once seemed to know a great deal about a surprising number of things - but he was not sure how to ask. "Thom," he said at last, "are there any books that have The Karaethon Cycle in them?" Easier to call it that than the Prophecies of the Dragon. "In the great libraries," Thom said slowly. "Any number of translations, and even in the Old Tongue, here and there." Rand started to ask if there was any way for him to find one, but the gleeman went on. "The Old Tongue has music in it, but too many even of the nobles are impatient with listening to it these days. Nobles are all expected to know the Old Tongue, but many only learn enough to impress people who dont. Translations dont have the same sound, unless theyre in High Chant, and sometimes that changes meanings even more than most translations. There is one verse in the Cycle - it doesnt scan well, translated word for word, but theres no meaning lost - that goes like this. and twice shall he be marked, twice to live, and twice to die. Once the heron, to set his path. Twice the heron, to name him true. Once the Dragon, for remembrance lost. Twice the Dragon, for the price he must pay." He reached out and touched the herons embroidered on Rands high collar. For a moment, Rand could only gape at him, and when he could speak, his voice was unsteady. "The sword makes five. Hilt, scabbard, and blade." He turned his hand down on the table, hiding the brand on his palm. For the first time since Selenes salve had done its work, he could feel it. Not hurting, "So they do." Thom barked a laugh. "Theres another comes to mind. "Twice dawns the day when his blood is shed. Once for mourning, once for birth. Red on black, the Dragons blood stains the rock of Shayol Ghul. In the Pit of Doom shall his blood free men from the Shadow." Rand shook his head, denying, but Thom seemed not to notice. "I dont see how a day can dawn twice, but then a lot of it doesnt really make much sense. The Stone of Tear will never fall till Callandor is wielded by the Dragon Reborn, but the Sword That Cannot Be Touched lies in the Heart of the Stone, so how can he wield it first, eh? Well, be that as it may. I suspect Aes Sedai would want to make events fit the Prophecies as closely as they can. Dying somewhere in the Blasted Lands would be a high price to pay for going along with them." It was an effort for Rand to make his voice calm, but he did it. "No Aes Sedai are using me for anything. I told you, the last I saw of Moiraine was in Shienar. She said I could go where I wanted, and I left." "And theres no Aes Sedai with you now? None at all?" "None." Thom knuckled his dangling white mustaches. He seemed satisfied, and at the same time puzzled. "Then why ask about the Prophecies? Why send the Ogier out of the room?" "I ... didnt want to upset him. Hes nervous enough about the Horn. Thats what I wanted to ask. Is the Horn mentioned in the - the Prophecies?" He still could not make himself say it all the way out. "All these false Dragons, and now the Horn is found. Everybody thinks the Horn of Valere is supposed to summon dead heroes to fight the Dark One in the Last Battle, and the ... the Dragon Reborn ... is supposed to fight the Dark One in the Last Battle. It seemed natural enough to ask." "I suppose it is. Not many know that about the Dragon Reborn fighting the Last Battle, or if they do, they think hell fight alongside the Dark One. Not many read the Prophecies to find out. What was that you said about the Horn? Supposed to?" "Ive learned a few things since we parted, Thom. They will come for whoever blows the Horn, even a Darkfriend." Bushy eyebrows rose nearly to Thoms hairline. "Now that I didnt know. You have learned a few things." "It doesnt mean I would let the White Tower use me for a false Dragon. I dont want anything to do with Aes Sedai, or false Dragons, or the Power, or ..." Rand bit his tongue. Get mad and you start babbling. Fool! "For a time, boy, I thought you were the one Moiraine wanted, and I even thought I knew why. You know, no man chooses to channel the Power. It is something that happens to him, like a disease. You cannot blame a man for falling sick, even if it might kill you, too." "Your nephew could channel, couldnt he? You told me that was why you helped us, because your nephew had had trouble with the White Tower and there was nobody to help him. Theres only one kind of trouble men can have with Aes Sedai." Thom studied the tabletop, pursing his lips. "I dont suppose there is any use in denying it. You understand, it is not the kind of thing a man talks about, having a male relative who could channel. Aaagh! The Red Ajah never gave Owyn a chance. They gentled him, and then he died. He just gave up wanting to live . . ." He exhaled sadly. Rand shivered. Why didnt Moiraine do that to me? "A chance, Thom? Do you mean there was some way he could have dealt with it? Not gone mad? Not died?" "Owyn held it off almost three years. He never hurt anyone. He didnt use the Power unless he had to, and then only to help his village. He ..." Thom threw up his hands. "I suppose there was no choice. The people where he lived told me he was acting strange that whole last year. They did not much want to talk about it, and they nearly stoned me when they found out I was his uncle. I suppose he was going mad. But he was my blood, boy. I cant love the Aes Sedai for what they did to him, even if they had to. If Moiraines let you go, then you are well out of it." For a moment Rand was silent. Fool! Of course theres no way to deal with it. Youre going to go mad and die whatever you do. But Baalzamon said - "No!" He colored under Thoms scrutiny. "I mean ... I am out of it, Thom. But I still have the Horn of Valere. Think of it, Thom. The Horn of Valere. Other gleemen might tell tales about it, but you could say you had it in your hands." He realized he sounded like Selene, but all that did was make him wonder where she was. "Theres nobody Id rather have with us than you, Thom." as if considering it, but in the end he shook his head firmly. "Boy, I like you well enough, but you know as well as I do that I only helped before because there was an Aes Sedai mixed in it. Seaghan doesnt try to cheat me more than I expect, and with the Kings Gift added in, I could never earn as much in the villages. To my very great surprise, Dena seems to love me, and - as much a surprise - I return the feeling. Now, why should I leave that to go be chased by Trollocs and Darkfriends? The Horn of Valere? Oh, it is a temptation, Ill admit, but no. No, I will not get mixed up in it again." He leaned over to pick up one of the wooden instrument cases, long and narrow. When he opened it, a flute lay inside, plainly made but mounted with silver. He closed it again and slid it across the table. "You might need to earn your supper again someday, boy." "I might at that," Rand said. "At least we can talk. I will be in - " The gleeman was shaking his head. "A clean break is best, boy. If youre always coming around, even if you never mention it, I wont be able to get the Horn out of my head. And I wont be tangled in it. I wont." After Rand left, Thom threw his cloak on the bed and sat with his elbows on the table. The Horn of Valere. How did that farmboy find ... He shut off that line of thought. Think about the Horn too long, and he would find himself running off with Rand to carry it to Shienar. That would make a story, carrying the Horn of Valere to the Borderlands with Trollocs and Darkfriends pursuing. Scowling, he reminded himself of Dena. Even if she had not loved him, talent such as hers was not to be found every day. And she did love, even if he could not begin to imagine why. "Old fool," he muttered. "Aye, an old fool," Zera said from the door. He gave a start; he had been so absorbed in his thoughts that he had not heard the door open. He had known Zera for years, off and on in his wanderings, and she always took full advantage of the friendship to speak her mind. "An old fool whos playing the Game of Houses again. Unless my ears are failing, that young lord has the sound of Andor on his tongue. Hes no Cairhienin, thats for certain sure. Daes Daemar is dangerous enough without letting an outland lord mix Thom blinked, then considered the way Rand had looked. That coat had surely been fine enough for a lord. He was growing old, letting things like that slip by him. Ruefully, he realized he was considering whether to tell Zera the truth or let her continue thinking as she did. All it takes is to think about the Great Game, and I start playing it. "The boy is a shepherd, Zera, from the Two Rivers." She laughed scornfully. "And Im the Queen of Ghealdan. I tell you, the Game has grown dangerous in Cairhien the last few years. Nothing like what you knew in Caemlyn. There are murders done, now. Youll have your throat cut for you, if you dont watch out." "I tell you, I am not in the Great Game any longer. Thats all twenty years in the past, near enough." "Aye." She did not sound as if she believed it. "But be that as it may, and young outland lords aside, youve begun performing at the lords manors." "They pay well." "And theyll pull you into their plots as soon as they see how. They see a man, and think how to use him, as naturally as breathing. This young lord of yours wont help you; they will eat him alive." He gave up on trying to convince her he was out of it. "Is that what you came up to say, Zera?" "Aye. Forget playing the Great Game, Thom. Marry Dena. Shell take you, the more fool her, bony and whitehaired as you are. Marry her, and forget this young lord and Daes Daemar." "I thank you for the advice," he said dryly. Marry her? Burden her with an old husband. Shell never be a bard with my past hanging around her neck. "If you dont mind, Zera, I want to be alone for a while. I perform for Lady Arilyn and her guests tonight, and I need to prepare." She gave him a snort and a shake of her head and banged the door shut behind her. Thom drummed his fingers on the table. Coat or no coat, Rand was still only a shepherd. If he had been more, if he had been what Thom once suspected - a man who could channel - neither Moiraine nor any other Aes Sedai would ever have let him walk away ungentled. Horn or no Horn, the boy was only a shepherd. "He is out of it," he said aloud, "and so am I." PROLOGUE