 Toggle navigationHomeLatest UpdateAdventureChristianFantasyHistoricalHorrorHumorousMysteryRomanceScience FictionThrillerWesternYoung AdultTop BooksPreySphereBlack RoseThe Great Train RobberyBlue DahliaCarnal InnocenceDance Upon the AirHigh NoonLawlessSacred SinsTributeFace the FireHolding the DreamA Man for AmandaAll the PossibilitiesNextThe Great Hunt 41 () 41 (RubyHilted Dagger) Disagreements Thunder rumbled across the slatedark afternoon sky. Rand pulled the hood of his cloak further up, hoping to keep at least some of the cold rain off. Red stepped through muddy puddles doggedly. The hood hung sodden around Rands head, as the rest of the cloak did around his shoulders, and his fine black coat was just as wet, and as cold. The temperature would not have far to drop before snow or sleet came down instead of rain. Snow would fall soon, again; the people in the village they had passed through said two snows had already come this year. Shivering, Rand almost wished it was snowing. Then, at least, he would not be soaked to the skin. The column plodded along, keeping a wary eye on the rolling country. Ingtars Gray Owl hung heavily even when the wind gusted. Hurin sometimes pulled his cowl back to sniff the air; he said neither rain nor cold had any effect on a trail, certainly not on the kind of trail he was seeking, but so far the sniffer had found nothing. Behind him, Rand heard Uno mutter a curse. Loial kept checking his saddlebags; he did not seem to mind getting wet himself, but he worried continually about his books. Everyone was miserable except for Verin, who appeared too lost in thought to even notice that her hood had slid back, exposing her face to the rain. "Cant you do something about this?" Rand demanded of her. A small voice in the back of his head told him he could do it himself. All he need do was embrace saidin. So sweet, the call of saidin. To be filled with the One Power, to be one with the storm. Turn the skies to sunlight, or ride the storm as it raged, whip it to fury and scour Toman Head clean from the sea to the plain. Embrace saidin. He suppressed the longing ruthlessly. The Aes Sedai gave a start. "What? Oh. I suppose. A little. I couldnt stop a storm this big, not by myself - it covers too much area - but I could lessen it some. Where we are, at least." She wiped rain from her face, seemed to realize for the first time that her hood had slipped, and pulled it back up absently. "Then why dont you?" Mat said. The shivering face peering out from under his hood looked at deaths door, but his voice was vigorous. "Because if I used that much of the One Power, any Aes Sedai closer than ten miles would know someone had channeled. We dont want to bring these Seanchan down on us with some of their damane." Her mouth tightened angrily. They had learned a little of the invaders in that village, called Atuans Mill, though most of what they had heard hatched more questions than it answered. The people had babbled one moment and clamped their mouths shut the next, trembling and looking over their shoulders. They all shook with fear that the Seanchan would return with their monsters and their damane. That women who should have been Aes Sedai were instead leashed like animals frightened the villagers even more than the strange creatures the Seanchan commanded, things the folk of Atuans Mill could only describe in whispers as coming from nightmares. And worst of all, the examples the Seanchan had made before leaving still chilled the people to their marrow. They had buried their dead, but they feared to clean away the large charred patch in the village square. None of them would say what had happened there, but Hurin had vomited as soon as they entered the village, and he would not go near the blackened ground. Atuans Mill had been half deserted. Some had fled to Falme, thinking the Seanchan would not be so harsh in a town they held fast, and others had gone east. More had said they were thinking of it. There was fighting on Almoth Plain, Taraboners battling Domani it was said, but such houses and barns as were burned there were kindled by torches in the hands of men. Even a war was easier to face than what the Seanchan had done, what they might do. "Why did Fain bring the Horn here?" Perrin muttered. The question had been asked by each of them at one time or another, and no one had an answer. "Theres war, and these Seanchan, and their monsters. Why here?" Ingtar turned in his saddle to look back at them. His face appeared almost as haggard as Mats. "There are always men who see chances for their own advantage in the confusion of war. Fain is one like that. No doubt he thinks to steal the Horn again, from the Dark One this time, and use it for his own profit." "The Father of Lies never lays simple plans," Verin said. "It may be that he wants Fain to bring the Horn here for some reason known only in Shayol Ghul." "Monsters," Mat snorted. His cheeks were sunken, now, his eyes hollow. That he sounded healthy only made it worse. "They saw some Trollocs, or a Fade, if you ask me. Well, why not? If the Seanchan have Aes Sedai fighting for them, why not Fades and Trollocs?" He caught Verin staring at him and flinched. "Well, they are, on leashes or not. They can channel, and that makes them Aes Sedai. " He glanced at Rand and gave a ragged laugh. "That makes you Aes Sedai, the Light help us all." Masema came galloping from ahead, through the mud and the steady rain. "There is another village ahead, my Lord," he said as he pulled in beside Ingtar. His eyes only swept past Rand, but they tightened, and he did not look at Rand again. "Its empty, my Lord. No villagers, no Seanchan, nobody at all. The houses all look sound, though, except for two or three that ... well, they arent ther Ingtar raised his hand and signaled for a trot. The village Masema had found covered the slopes of a hill, with a paved square at the top around a circle of stone walls. The houses were of stone, all flatroofed and few more than a single story. Three that had been larger, along one side of the square, were only heaps of blackened rubble; shattered chunks of stone and roof beams lay scattered across the square. A few shutters banged when the wind gusted. Ingtar dismounted in front of the only large building still standing. The creaking sign above its door bore a woman juggling stars, but no name; rain came off the corners in two steady drizzles. Verin hurried inside while Ingtar spoke. "Uno, search every house. If there is anyone left, perhaps they can tell us what happened here, and maybe a little more about these Seanchan. And if theres any food, bring that, too. And blankets." Uno nodded and began telling off men. Ingtar turned to Hurin. "What do you smell? Did Fain come through here?" Hurin, rubbing his nose, shook his head. "Not him, my Lord, and not the Trollocs, neither. Whoever did that left a stench, though." He pointed to the wreckage that had been houses. "It was killing, my Lord. There were people in there." "Seanchan," Ingtar growled. "Lets get inside. Ragan, find some sort of stable for the horses." Verin already had fires going in both of the big fireplaces, at either end of the common room, and was warming her hands at one, her sodden cloak spread out on one of the tables dotting the tiled floor. She had found a few candles, too, now burning on a table stuck in their own tallow. Emptiness and quiet, except for the occasional grumble of thunder, added to the flickering shadows to give the place a cavernous feel. Rand tossed his equally wet cloak and coat on a table and joined her. Only Loial seemed more interested in checking his books than in warming himself. "We will never find the Horn of Valere this way," Ingtar said. "Three days since we ... since we arrived here" - he shuddered and scrubbed a hand through his hair; Rand wondered what the Shienaran had seen in his other lives - "another two, at least, to Falme, and we have not found so much as a hair of Fain or Darkfriends. There are scores of villages along the coast. He could have gone to any of them and taken ship anywhere by now. If he was ever here." "He is here," Verin said calmly, "and he went to Falme." "And hes still here," Rand said. Waiting for me. Please, Light, hes still waiting. "Hurin still hasnt caught a whiff of him," Ingtar said. The sniffer shrugged as if he felt himself at fault for the failure. "Why would he choose Falme? If those villagers are to be believed, Falme is held by these Seanchan. I would give my best hound to know who they are, and where they came from." "Who they are is not important to us." Verin knelt and unfastened her saddlebags, pulling out dry clothes. "At least we have rooms in which to change our clothes, though it will do us little good unless the weather changes. Ingtar, it may well be that what the villagers told us is right, that they are the descendants of Artur Hawkwings armies come back. What matters is that Padan Fain has gone to Falme. The writings in the dungeon at Fal Dara -" "- never mentioned Fain. Forgive me, Aes Sedai, but that could have been a trick as easily as dark prophecy. I cant believe even Trollocs would be stupid enough to tell us everything they were going to do before they did it." She twisted to look up at him. "And what do you mean to do, if you will not take my advice?" "I mean to have the Horn of Valere," Ingtar said firmly. "Forgive me, but I have to trust my own senses before some words scrawled by a Trolloc ..." "A Myrddraal, surely," Verin murmured, but he did not even pause. " ... or a Darkfriend seeming to betray himself out of his own mouth . I mean to quarter the ground until Hurin smells a trail or we find Fain in the flesh. I must have the Horn, Verin Sedai. I must!" "That isnt the way," Hurin said softly. "Not must. What happens, happens." No one paid him any mind. "We all must," Verin murmured, peering into her saddlebags, "yet some things may be even more important than that." She did not say more, but Rand grimaced. He longed to get away from her and her prods and hints. I am not the Dragon Reborn. Light, but I wish I could just get away from Aes Sedai completely. "Ingtar, I think Im riding on to Falme. Fain is there - Im sure he is - and if I dont come soon, he - he will do something to hurt Emonds Field." He had not mentioned that part before. They all stared at him, Mat and Perrin frowning, worried but considering; Verin as if she had just seen a new piece added to a puzzle. Loial looked astonished, and Hurin seemed confused. Ingtar was openly disbelieving. "Why would he do that?" the Shienaran said. "I dont know," Rand lied, "but that was part of the message he left with Barthanes." "And did Barthanes say Fain was going to Falme?" Ingtar demanded. "No. It wouldnt matter if he had." He gave a bitter laugh. "Darkfriends lie as naturally as they breathe." " Mat said, "if I knew how to stop Fain from hurting Emonds Field, I would. If I was sure he was going to. But I need that dagger, Rand, and Hurin has the best chance of finding it." "I will go wherever you go, Rand," Loial said. He had finished making sure the books were dry and was taking off his sodden coat. "But I dont see where a few more days will change anything one way or another, now. Try being a little less hasty for once." "It doesnt matter to me whether we go to Falme now, later, or never," Perrin said with a shrug, "but if Fain really is threatening Emonds Field ... well, Mats right. Hurin is the best way to find him." "I can find him, Lord Rand," Hurin put in. "Let me get one sniff of him, and Ill take you right to him. Theres never anything else left a trail like his." "You must make your own choice, Rand," Verin said carefully, "but remember that Falme is held by invaders about whom we still know next to nothing. If you go to Falme alone, you may find yourself a prisoner, or worse, and that will serve nothing. I am sure whatever choice you make wil "Taveren," Loial rumbled. Rand threw up his hands. Uno came in from the square, shaking rain off his cloak. "Not a flaming soul to be found, my Lord. Looks to me like they ran like striped pigs. Livestocks all gone, and there isnt a bloody cart or wagon left, either. Half the houses are stripped to the flaming floors. Ill wager my next months pay you could follow them by the bloody furniture they tossed on the side of the road when they realized it was only weighing down their flaming wagons." "What about clothes?" Ingtar asked. Uno blinked his one eye in surprise. "Just a few bits and pieces, my Lord. Mainly what they didnt think was bloody worth taking with them." "They will have to do. Hurin, I mean to dress you and a few more as local people, as many as we can manage, so you wont stand out. I want you to swing wide, north and south, until you cross the trail." More soldiers were coming in, and they all gathered around Ingtar and Hurin to listen. Rand leaned his hands on the mantel over the fireplace and stared into the flames. They made him think of Baalzamons eyes. "There isnt much time," he said. "I feel ... something ... pulling me to Falme, and there isnt much time." He saw Verin watching him, and added harshly, "Not that. Its Fain I have to find. It has nothing to do with ... that." Verin nodded. "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills, and we are all woven into the Pattern. Fain has been here weeks before us, perhaps months. A few more days will make little difference in whatever is going to happen." "Im going to get some sleep," he muttered, picking up his saddlebags. "They cant have carried off all the beds." Upstairs, he did find beds, but only a few still had mattresses, and those so lumpy he thought it might be more comfortable to sleep on the floor. Finally he chose a bed where the mattress simply sagged in the middle. There was nothing else in the room except one wooden chair and a table with a rickety leg. He took off his wet things, putting on a dry shirt and breeches before lying down, since there were no sheets or blankets, and propped his sword beside the head of the bed. Wryly, he thought that the only thing dry he had for a coverlet was the Dragons banner; he left it safely buckled inside the saddlebags. Rain drummed on the roof, and thunder growled overhead, and now and again a lightning flash lit the windows. Shivering, he rolled this way and that on the mattress, seeking some comfortable way to lie, wondering if the banner would not do for a blanket after all, wondering if he should ride on to Falme. He rolled to his other side, and Baalzamon was standing beside the chair with the pure white length of the Dragons banner in his hands. The room seemed darker there, as if Baalzamon stood on the edge of a cloud of oily black smoke. Nearly healed burns crisscrossed his face, and as Rand looked, his pitchdark eyes vanished for an instant, replaced by endless caverns of fire. Rands saddlebags lay by his feet, buckles undone, flap thrown back where the banner had been hidden. "The time comes closer, Lews Therin. A thousand threads draw tight, and soon you will be tied and trapped, set to a course you cannot change. Madness. Death. Before you die, will you once more kill everything you love?" Rand glanced at the door, but he made no move except to sit up on the side of the bed. What good to try running from the Dark One? His throat felt like sand. "I am not the Dragon, Father of Lies!" he said hoarsely. The darkness behind Baalzamon roiled, and furnaces roared as Baalzamon laughed. "You honor me. And belittle yourself. I know you too well. I have faced you a thousand times. A thousand times a thousand. I know you to your miserable soul, Lews Therin Kinslayer." He laughed again; Rand put a hand in front of his face against the heat of that fiery mouth. "What do you want? I will not serve you. I will not do anything that you want. Ill die first!" "You will die, worm! How many times have you died across the span of the Ages, fool, and how much has death availed you? The grave is cold and lonely, save for the worms. The grave is mine. This time there will be no rebirth for you. This time the Wheel of Time will be broken and the world remade in the image of the Shadow. This time your death will be forever! Which will you choose? Death everlasting? Or life eternal - and power!" Rand hardly realized that he was on his feet. The void had surrounded him, saidin was there, and the One Power flowed into him. That fact almost cracked the emptiness. Was this real? Was it a dream? Could he channel in a dream? But the torrent rushing into him swept away his doubts. He hurled it at Baalzamon, hurled the pure One Power, the force that turned the Wheel of Time, a force that could make seas burn and eat mountains. Baalzamon took half a step back, holding the banner clutched before him. Flames leaped in his wide eyes and mouth, and the darkness seemed to cloak him in shadow. In the Shadow. The Power sank into that black mist and vanished, soaked up like water on parched sand. Rand drew on saidin, pulled for more, and still more. His flesh seemed so cold it must shatter at a touch; it burned as if it must boil away. His bones felt on the point of crisping to cold crystal ash. He did not care; it was like drinking life itself. "Fool!" Baalzamon roared. "You will destroy yourself!" Mat. The thought floated somewhere beyond the consuming flood. The dagger. The Horn. Fain. Emonds Field. I cant die yet. ure how he did it, but suddenly the Power was gone, and saidin, and the void. Shuddering uncontrollably, he fell to his knees beside the bed, arms wrapped around himself in a vain effort to stop their twitching. "That is better, Lews Therin." Baalzamon tossed the banner to the floor and put his hands on the chair back; wisps of smoke rose from between his fingers. The shadow no longer encompassed him. "There is your banner, Kinslayer. Much good will it do you. A thousand strings laid over a thousand years have drawn you here. Ten thousand woven throughout the Ages tie you like a sheep for slaughter. The Wheel itself holds you prisoner to your fate Age after Age. But I can set you free. You cowering cur, I alone in the entire world can teach you how to wield the Power. I alone can stop it killing you before you have a chance to go mad. I alone can stop the madness. You have served me before. Serve me again, Lews Therin, or be destroyed forever!" "My name," Rand forced between chattering teeth, "is Rand alThor." His shivering forced him to squeeze his eyes shut, and when he opened Baalzamon was gone. The shadow was gone. His saddlebags stood against the chair with the buckles done up and one side bulging with the bulk of the Dragons banner, just as he had left it. But on the chair back, tendrils of smoke still rose from the charred impressions of fingers. PROLOGUE