 23 () 23 Wolfbrother From the start Perrin knew the journey to Caemlyn was going to be far from comfortable, beginning with Egwenes insistence that they take turns riding Bela. They did not know how far it was, she said, but it was too far for her to be the only one who rode. Her jaw firmed, and her eyes stared at him unblinking. "Im too big to ride Bela," he said. "Im used to walking, and Id rather." "And I am not used to walking?" Egwene said sharply. "That isnt what I -" ;m the only one whos supposed to get saddlesore, is that it? And when you walk till your feet are ready to fall off, youll expect me to look after you." "Let it be," he breathed when she looked like going on. "Anyway, youll take the first turn." Her face turned even more stubborn, but he refused to let her get a word in edgewise. "If you wont get in the saddle by yourself, Ill put you there." She gave him a startled look, and a small smile curved her lips. "In that case..." She sounded as if she were about to laugh, but she climbed up. He grumbled to himself as he turned away from the river. Leaders in stories never had to put up with this sort of thing. Egwene did insist on him taking his turns, and whenever he tried to avoid it, she bullied him into the saddle. Blacksmithing did not lend itself to a slender build, and Bela was not very large as horses went. Every time he put his foot in the stirrup the shaggy mare looked at him with what he was sure was reproach. Small things, perhaps, but they irritated. Soon he flinched whenever Egwene announced, "Its your turn, Perrin." In stories leaders seldom flinched, and they were never bullied. But, he reflected, they never had to deal with Egwene, either. There were only short rations of bread and cheese to begin with, and what there was gave out by the end of the first day. Perrin set snares along likely rabbit runs - they looked old, but it was worth a chance - while Egwene began laying a fire. When he was done, he decided to try his hand with his sling before the light failed altogether. They had not seen a sign of anything at all alive, but ... To his surprise, he jumped a scrawny rabbit almost at once. He was so surprised when it burst from under a bush right beneath his feet that it almost got away, but he fetched it at forty paces, just as it was darting around a tree. When he came back to the camp with the rabbit, Egwene had broken limbs all laid for the fire, but she was kneeling beside the pile with her eyes closed. "What are you doing? You cant wish a fire." Egwene gave a jump at his first words, and twisted around to stare at him with a hand to her throat. "You ... you startled me." "I was lucky," he said, holding up the rabbit. "Get your flint and steel. We eat well tonight, at least." "I dont have a flint," she said slowly. "It was in my pocket, and I lost it in the river." "Then how ... ?" "It was so easy back there on the riverbank, Perrin. Just the way Moiraine Sedai showed me. I just reached out, and ..." She gestured as if grasping for something, then let her hand fall with a sigh. "I cant find it, now." Perrin licked his lips uneasily. "The ... the Power?" She nodded, and he stared at her. "Are you crazy? I mean ... the One Power! You cant just play around with something like that." "It was so easy, Perrin. I can do it. I can channel the Power." He took a deep breath. "Ill make a firebow, Egwene. Promise you wont try this ... this ... thing again." "I will not." Her jaw firmed in a way that made him sigh. "Would you give up that axe of yours, Perrin Aybara? Would you walk around with one hand tied behind your back? I wont do it!" "Ill make the firebow," he said wearily. "At least, dont try it again tonight? Please?" She acquiesced grudgingly, and even after the rabbit was roasting on a spit over the flames, he had the feeling she felt she could have done it better. She would not give up trying, either, every night, though the best she ever did was a trickle of smoke that vanished almost immediately. Her eyes dared him to say a word, and he wisely kept his mouth shut. After that one hot meal, they subsisted on coarse wild tubers and a few young shoots. With still no sign of spring, none of it was plentiful, and none of it tasty, either. Neither complained, but not a meal passed without one or the other sighing regretfully, and they both knew it was for the tang of a bit of cheese, or even the smell of bread. A find of mushrooms - Queens Crowns, the best - one afternoon in a shady part of the forest was enough to seem a great treat. They gobbled them down, laughing and telling stories from back in Emonds Field, stories that began, "Do you remember when -" but the mushrooms did not last long, and neither did the laughter. There was little mirth in hunger. Whichever was walking carried a sling, ready to let fly at the sight of a rabbit or squirrel, but the only time either hurled a stone was in frustration. The snares they set so carefully each evening yielded nothing at dawn, and they did not dare stay a day in one place to leave the snares out. Neither of them knew how far it was to Caemlyn, and neither would feel safe until they got there, if then. Perrin began to wonder if his stomach could shrink enough to make a hole all t They made good time, as he saw it, but as they got farther and farther from the Arinelle without seeing a village, or even a farmhouse where they could ask directions, his doubts about his own plan grew. Egwene continued to appear outwardly as confident as when they set out, but he was sure that sooner or later she would say it would have been better to risk the Trollocs than to wander around lost for the rest of their lives. She never did, but he kept expecting it. Two days from the river the land changed to thickly forested hills, as gripped by the tail end of winter as everywhere else, and a day after that the hills flattened out again, the dense forest broken by glades, often a mile or more across. Snow still lay in hidden hollows, and the air was brisk of a morning, and the wind cold always. Nowhere did they see a road, or a plowed field, or chimney smoke in the distance, or any other sign of human habitation - at least, none where men still dwelt. Once the remains of tall stone ramparts encircled a hilltop. Parts of roofless stone houses stood inside the fallen circle. The forest had long swallowed it; trees grew right through everything, and spiderwebs of old creeper enveloped the big stone blocks. Another time they came on a stone tower, brokentopped and brown with old moss, leaning on the huge oak whose thick roots were slowly toppling it. But they found no place where men had breathed in living remembrance. Memories of Shadar Logoth kept them away from the ruins and hurried their footsteps until they were once more deep in places that seemed never to have known a human footstep. Dreams plagued Perrins sleep, fearful dreams. Baalzamon was in them, chasing him through mazes, hunting him, but Perrin never met him facetoface, so far as he remembered. And their journey had been enough to bring a few bad dreams. Egwene complained of nightmares about Shadar Logoth, especially the two nights after they found the ruined fort and the abandoned tower. Perrin kept his own counsel even when he woke sweating and shaking in the dark. She was looking to him to lead them safely to Caemlyn, not share worries about which they could do nothing. He was walking at Belas head, wondering if they would find anything to eat this evening, when he first caught the smell. The mare flared her nostrils and swung her head in the next moment. He seized her bridle before she could whicker. "Thats smoke," Egwene said excitedly. She leaned forward in the saddle, drew a deep breath. "A cookfire. Somebody is roasting dinner. Rabbit." "Maybe," Perrin said cautiously, and her eager smile faded. He exchanged his sling for the wicked halfmoon of the axe. His hands opened and closed uncertainly on the thick haft. It was a weapon, but neither his hidden practice behind the forge nor Lans teachings had really prepared him to use it as one. Even the battle before Shadar Logoth was too vague in his mind to give him any confidence. He could never quite manage that void that Rand and the Warder talked about, either. Sunlight slanted through the trees behind them, and the forest was a still mass of dappled shadows. The faint smell of woodsmoke drifted around them, tinged with the aroma of cooking meat. It could be rabbit, he thought, and his stomach grumbled. And it could be something else, he reminded himself. He looked at Egwene; she was watching him. There were responsibilities to being leader. "Wait here," he said softly. She frowned, but he cut her off as she opened her mouth. "And be quiet! We dont know who it is, yet." She nodded. Reluctantly, but she did it. Perrin wondered why that did not work when he was trying to make her take his turn riding. Drawing a deep breath, he started for the source of the smoke. He had not spent as much time in the forests around Emonds Field as Rand or Mat, but still he had done his share of hunting rabbits. He crept from tree to tree without so much as snapping a twig. It was not long before he was peering around the bole of a tall oak with spreading, serpentine limbs that bent to touch the ground then rose again. Beyond lay a campfire, and a lean, sunbrowned man was leaning against one of the limbs not far from the flames. At least he was not a Trolloc, but he was the strangest fellow Perrin had ever seen. For one thing, his clothes all seemed to be made from animal skins, with the fur still on, even his boots and the odd, flattopped round cap on his head. His cloak was a crazy quilt of rabbit and squirrel; his trousers appeared to be made from the longhaired hide of a brown and white goat. Gathered at the back of his neck with a cord, his graying brown hair hung to his waist. A thick beard fanned across half his chest. A long knife hung at his belt, almost a sword, and a bow and quiver stood propped against a limb close to hand. The man leaned back with his eyes closed, apparently asleep, but Perrin did not stir from his concealment. Six sticks slanted over the fellows fire, and on each stick a rabbit was skewered, roasted brown and now and then dripping juice that hissed in the flames. The smell of them, so close, made his mouth water. "You done drooling?" The man opened one eye and cocked it at Perrins hiding place. "You and your friend might as well sit and have a bite. I havent seen you eat much the last couple of days." Perrin hesitated, then stood slowly, still gripping his axe tightly. "Youve been watching me for two days?" The man chuckled deep in his throat. "Yes, I been watching you. And that pretty girl. Pushes you around like a bantam rooster, doesnt she? Heard you, mostly. The horse is the only one of you doesnt trample around loud enough to be heard five miles off. You going to ask her in, or are you intending to eat all the rabbit yourself?" Perrin bristled; he knew he did not make much noise. You could not get close enough to a rabbit in the Waterwood to fetch it with a sling if you made noise. But the smell of rabbit made him remember that Egwene was hungry, too, not to mention waiting to discover if it was a Trolloc fire they had smelled. He slipped the haft of his axe through the belt loop and raised his voice. "Egwene! Its all right! It is rabbit!" Offering his hand, he added in a more normal tone, "My name is Perrin. Perrin Aybara." The man considered his hand before taking it awkwardly, as if unused to shaking hands. "Im called Elyas," he said, looking up. "Elyas Machera." Perrin gasped, and nearly dropped Elyass hand. The mans eyes were yellow, like bright, polished gold. Some memory tickled at the back of Perrins mind, then fled. All he could think of right then was that all of the Trollocs eyes he had seen had been almost black. Egwene appeared, cautiously leading Bela. She tied the mares reins to one of the smaller branches of the oak, and made polite sounds when Perrin introduced her to Elyas, but her eyes kept drifting to the rabbits. She did not seem to notice the mans eyes. When Elyas motioned them to the food, she fell to with a will. Perrin hesitated only a minute longer before joining her. Elyas waited silently while they ate. Perrin was so hungry he tore off pieces of meat so hot he had to juggle them from hand to hand before he could hold them in his mouth. Even Egwene showed little of her usual neatness; greasy juice ran down her chin. Day faded into twilight before they began to slow down, moonless darkness closing in around the fire, and then Elyas spoke. "What are you doing out here? There isnt a house inside fifty miles in any direction." "Were going to Caemlyn," Egwene said. "Perhaps you could -" Her eyebrows lifted coolly as Elyas threw back his head and roared with laughter. Perrin stared at him, a rabbit leg half raised to his mouth. yn?" Elyas wheezed when he could talk again. "The path youre following, the line youve taken the last two days, youll pass a hundred miles or more north of Caemlyn." "We were going to ask directions," Egwene said defensively. "We just havent found any villages or farms, yet." "And none you will," Elyas said, chuckling. "The way youre going, you can travel all the way to the Spine of the World without seeing another human. Of course, if you managed to climb the Spine - it can be done, some places - you could find people in the Aiel Waste, but you wouldnt like it there. Youd broil by day, and freeze by night, and die of thirst anytime. It takes an Aielman to find water in the Waste, and they dont like strangers much. No, not much, Id say." He set off into another, more furious, burst of laughter, this time actually rolling on the ground. "Not much at all," he managed. Perrin shifted uneasily. Are we eating with a madman? Egwene frowned, but she waited until Elyass mirth faded a little, then said, "Perhaps you could show us the way. You seem to know a good deal more about where places are than we do." Elyas stopped laughing. Raising his head, he replaced his round fur cap, which had fallen off while he was rolling about, and stared at her from under lowered brows. "I dont much like people," he said in a flat voice. "Cities are full of people. I dont go near villages, or even farms, very often. Villagers, farmers, they dont like my friends. I wouldnt even have helped you if you hadnt been stumbling around as helpless and innocent as newborn cubs." "But at least you can tell us which way to go," she insisted. "If you direct us to the nearest village, even if its fifty miles away, surely theyll give us dir "Be still," Elyas said. "My friends are coming." Bela suddenly whinnied in fear, and began jerking to pull her reins free. Perrin half rose as shapes appeared all around them in the darkening forest. Bela reared and twisted, screaming. "Quiet the mare," Elyas said. "They wont hurt her. Or you, if youre still." Four wolves stepped into the firelight, shaggy, waisthigh forms with jaws that could break a mans leg. As if the people were not there they walked up to the fire and lay down between the humans. In the darkness among the trees firelight reflected off the eyes of more wolves, on all sides. Yellow eyes, Perrin thought. Like Elyass eyes. That was what he had been trying to remember. Carefully watching the wolves among them, he reached for his axe. "I would not do that," Elyas said. "If they think you mean harm, theyll stop being friendly." They were staring at him, those four wolves, Perrin saw. He had the feeling that all the wolves, those in the trees, as well, were staring at him . It made his skin itch. Cautiously he moved his hands away from the axe. He imagined he could feel the tension ease among the wolves. Slowly he sat back down; his hands shook until he gripped his knees to stop them. Egwene was so stiff she almost quivered. One wolf, close to black with a lighter gray patch on his face, lay nearly touching her. Bela had ceased her screaming and rearing. Instead she stood trembling and shifting in an attempt to keep all of the wolves in view, kicking occasionally to show the wolves that she could, intending to sell her life dearly. The wolves seemed to ignore her and everyone else. Tongues lolling out of their mouths, they waited at their ease. "There," Elyas said. "Thats better." "Are they tame?" Egwene asked faintly, and hopefully, too. "Theyre ... pets?" Elyas snorted. "Wolves dont tame, girl, not even as well as men. Theyre my friends. We keep each other company, hunt together, converse, after a fashion. Just like any friends. Isnt that right, Dapple?" A wolf with fur that faded through a dozen shades of gray, dark and light, turned her head to look at him. "You talk to them?" Perrin marveled. "It isnt exactly talking," Elyas replied slowly. "The words dont matter, and they arent exactly right, either. Her name isnt Dapple. Its something that means the way shadows play on a forest pool at a midwinter dawn, with the breeze rippling the surface, and the tang of ice when the water touches the tongue, and a hint of snow before nightfall in the air. But that isnt quite it, either. You cant say it in words. Its more of a feeling. Thats the way wolves talk. The others are Burn, Hopper, and Wind." Burn had an old scar on his shoulder that might explain his name, but there was nothing about the other two wolves to give any indication of what their names might mean. For all the mans gruffness, Perrin thought Elyas was pleased to have the chance to talk to another human. He seemed eager enough to do it, at least. Perrin eyed the wolves teeth glistening in the firelight and thought it might be a good idea to keep him talking. "How ... how did you learn to talk to wolves, Elyas?" "They found out," Elyas replied, "I didnt. Not at first. Thats always the way of it, I understand. The wolves find you, not you them. Some people thought me touched by the Dark One, because wolves started appearing wherever I went. I suppose I thought so, too, sometimes. Most decent folk began to avoid me, and the ones who sought me out werent the kind I wanted to know, one way or another. Then I noticed there were times when the wolves seemed to know what I was thinking, to respond to what was in my head. That was the real beginning. They were curious about me. Wolves can sense people, usually, but not like this. They were glad to find me. They say its been a long time since they hunted with men, and when they say a long time, the feeling I get is like a cold wind howling all the way down from the First Day." "I never heard of men hunting with wolves," Egwene said. Her voice was not entirely steady, but the fact that the wolves were just lying there seemed to give her heart. If Elyas heard her, he gave no sign. "Wolves remember things differently from the way people do," he said. His strange eyes took on a faraway look, as if he were drifting off on the flow of memory himself. "Every wolf remembers the history of all wolves, or at least the shape of it. Like I said, it cant be put into words very well. They remember running down prey sidebyside with men, but it was so long ago that its more like the shadow of a shadow than a memory." "Thats very interesting," Egwene said, and Elyas looked at her sharply. "No, I mean it. It is." She wet her lips. "Could ... ah ... could you teach us to talk to them?" Elyas snorted again. "It cant be taught. Some can do it, some cant. They say he can." He pointed at Perrin. Perrin looked at Elyass finger as if it were a knife. He really is a madman. The wolves were staring at him again. He shifted uncomfortably."You say youre going to Caemlyn," Elyas said, "but that still doesnt explain what youre doing out here, days from anywhere." He tossed back his furpatch cloak and lay down on his side, propped on one elbow and waiting expectantly. Perrin glanced at Egwene. Early on they had concocted a story for when they found people, to explain where they were going without bringing them any trouble. Without letting anyone know where they were really from, or where they were really going, eventually. Who knew what careless word might reach a Fades ear? They had worked on it every day, patching it together, honing out flaws. And they had decided Egwene was the one to tell it. She was better with words than he was, and she claimed she could always tell when he was lying by his face. Egwene began at once, smoothly. They were from the north, from Saldaea, from farms outside a tiny village. Neither of them had been more than twenty miles from home in their whole lives before this. But they had heard gleemens stories, and merchants tales, and they wanted to see some of the world. Caemlyn, and Illian. The Sea of Storms, and maybe even the fabled islands of the Sea Folk. Perrin listened with satisfaction. Not even Thom Merrilin could have made a better tale from the little they knew of the world outside the Two Rivers, or one better suited to their needs. Saldaea, eh?" Elyas said when she was done. Perrin nodded. "Thats right. We thought about seeing Maradon first. Id surely like to see the King. But the capital city would be the first place our fathers would look. " That was his part of it, to make it plain they had never been to Maradon. That way no one would expect them to know anything about the city, just in case they ran into someone who really had been there. It was all a long way from Emonds Field and the events of Winternight. Nobody hearing the tale would have any reason to think of Tar Valon, or Aes Sedai. "Quite a story." Elyas nodded. "Yes, quite a story. Theres a few things wrong with it, but the main thing is Dapple says its all a lump of lies. Every last word." "Lies!" Egwene exclaimed. "Why would we lie?" The four wolves had not moved, but they no longer seemed to be just lying there around the fire; they crouched, instead, and their yellow eyes watched the Emonds Fielders without blinking. Perrin did not say anything, but his hand strayed to the axe at his waist. The four wolves rose to their feet in one quick movement, and his hand froze. They made no sound, but the thick hackles on their necks stood erect. One of the wolves back under the trees raised a growling howl into the night. Others answered, five, ten, twenty, till the darkness rippled with them. Abruptly they, too, were still. Cold sweat trickled down Perrins face. "If you think ..." Egwene stopped to swallow. Despite the chill in the air there was sweat on her face, too. "If you think we are lying, then youll probably prefer that we make our own camp for the night, away from yours. " "Ordinarily I would, girl. But right now I want to know about the Trollocs. And the Halfmen." Perrin struggled to keep his face impassive, and hoped he was doing better at it than Egwene. Elyas went on in a conversational tone. "Dapple says she smelled Halfmen and Trollocs in your minds while you were telling that fool story. They all did. Youre mixed up with Trollocs, somehow, and the Eyeless. Wolves hate Trollocs and Halfmen worse than wildfire, worse than anything, and so do I. "Burn wants to be done with you. It was Trollocs gave him that mark when he was a yearling. He says game is scarce, and youre fatter than any deer hes seen in months, and we should be done with you. But Burn is always impatient. Why dont you tell me about it? I hope youre not Darkfriends. I dont like killing people after Ive fed them. Just remember, theyll know if you lie, and even Dapple is already near as upset as Burn." His eyes, as yellow as the wolves eyes, blinked no more than theirs did. They are a wolfs eyes, Perrin thought.Egwene was looking at him, he realized, waiting for him to decide what they should do. Light, suddenly Im the leader again. They had decided from the first that they could not risk telling the real story to anyone, but he saw no chance for them to get away even if he managed to Dapple growled deep in her throat, and the sound was taken up by the other three around the fire, then by the wolves in the darkness. The menacing rumble filled the night. "All right," Perrin said quickly. "All right!" The growling cut off, sharp and sudden. Egwene unclenched her hands and nodded. "It all started a few days before Winternight," Perrin began, "when our friend Mat saw a man in a black cloak ..." Elyas never changed his expression or the way he lay on his side, but there was something about the tilt of his head that spoke of ears pricking up. The four wolves sat down as Perrin went on; he had the impression they were listening, too. The story was a long one, and he told almost all of it. The dream he and the others had had in Baerlon, though, he kept to himself. He waited for the wolves to make some sign they had caught the omission, but they only watched. Dapple seemed friendly, Burn angry. He was hoarse by the time he finished. "... and if she doesnt find us in Caemlyn, well go on to Tar Valon. We dont have any choice except to get help from the Aes Sedai." "Trollocs and Halfmen this far south," Elyas mused. "Now thats something to consider." He rooted behind him and tossed Perrin a hide waterbag, not really looking at him. He appeared to be thinking. He waited until Perrin had drunk and replaced the plug before he spoke again. "I dont hold with Aes Sedai. The Red Ajah, those that like hunting for men who mess with the One Power, they wanted to gentle me, once. I told them to their faces they were Black Ajah; served the Dark One, I said, and they didnt like that at all. They couldnt catch me, though, once I got into the forest, but they did try. Yes, they did. Come to that, I doubt any Aes Sedai would take kindly to me, after that. I had to kill a couple of Warders. Bad business, that, killing Warders. Dont like it." "This talking to wolves," Perrin said uneasily. "It ... it has to do with the Power?" "Of course not," Elyas growled. "Wouldnt have worked on me, gentling, but it made me mad, them wanting to try. This is an old thing, boy. Older than Aes Sedai. Older than anybody using the One Power. Old as humankind. Old as wolves. They dont like that either, Aes Sedai. Old things coming again. Im not the only one. There are other things, other folk. Makes Aes Sedai nervous, makes them mutter about ancient barriers weakening. Things are breaking apart, they say. Theyre afraid the Dark One will get loose, is what. Youd think I was to blame, the way some of them looked at me. Red Ajah, anyway, but some others, too. The Amyrlin Seat ... Aaaah! I keep clear of them, mostly, and clear of friends of Aes Sedai, as well. You will, too, if youre smart." "Id like nothing better than to stay away from Aes Sedai," Perrin said. Egwene gave him a sharp look. He hoped she would not burst out that she wanted to be an Aes Sedai. But she said nothing, though her mouth tightened, and Perrin went on. "It isnt as if we have a choice. Weve had Trollocs chasing us, and Fades, and Draghkar. Everything but Darkfriends. We cant hide, and we cant fight back alone. So who is going to help us? Who else is strong enough, except Aes Sedai?" Elyas was silent for a time, looking at the wolves, most often at Dapple or Burn. Perrin shifted nervously and tried not to watch. When he watched he had the feeling that he could almost hear what Elyas and the wolves were saying to one another. Even if it had nothing to do with the Power, he wanted no part of it. He had to be making some crazy joke. I cant talk to wolves. One of the wolves - Hopper, he thought - looked at him and seemed to grin. He wondered how he had put a name to him. "You could stay with me," Elyas said finally. "With us." Egwenes eyebrows shot up, and Perrins mouth dropped open. "Well, what could be safer?" Elyas challenged. "Trollocs will take any chance they get to kill a wolf by itself, but theyll go miles out of their way to avoid a pack. And you wont have to worry about Aes Sedai, either. They dont often come into these woods." "I dont know." Perrin avoided looking at the wolves to either side of him. One was Dapple, and he could feel her eyes on him. "For one thing, it isnt just the Trollocs." Elyas chuckled coldly. "Ive seen a pack pull down one of the Eyeless, too. Lost half the pack, but they wouldnt give up once they had its scent. Trollocs, Myrddraal, its all one to the wolves. Its you they really want, boy. Theyve heard of other men who can talk to wolves, but youre the first theyve ever met besides me. Theyll accept your friend, too, though, and youll all be safer here than in any city. Theres Darkfriends in cities." "Listen," Perrin said urgently, "I wish youd stop saying that. I cant do that ... what you do, what youre saying." "As you wish, boy. Play the goat, if youve a mind to. Dont you want to be safe?" "Im not deceiving myself. Theres nothing to deceive myself about. All we want -" "We are going to Caemlyn," Egwene spoke up firmly. "And then to Tar Valon. " Closing his mouth, Perrin met her angry look with one of his own. He knew that she followed his lead when she wanted to and not when she did not, but she could at least let him answer for himself. "What about you, Perrin?" he said, and answered himself. "Me? Well, let me think. Yes. Yes, I think Ill go on." He turned a mild smile on her. "Well, Egwene, that makes both of us. I guess Im going with you, at that. Good to talk these things out before making a decision, isnt it?" She blushed, but the set of her jaw never lessened. Elyas grunted. "Dapple said thats what youd decide. She said the girls planted firmly in the human world, while you" - he nodded at Perrin - "stand halfway between. Under the circumstances, I suppose wed better go south with you. Otherwise, youll probably starve to death, or get lost, or -" Abruptly Burn stood up, and Elyas turned his head to regard the big wolf. After a moment Dapple rose, too. She moved closer to Elyas, so that he also was meeting Burns stare. The tableau was frozen for long minutes, then Burn whirled and vanished into the night. Dapple shook herself, then resumed her place, flopping down as if nothing had happened. Elyas met Perrins questioning eyes. "Dapple runs this pack," he explained. "Some of the males could best her if they challenged, but shes smarter than any of them, and they all know it. Shes saved the pack more than once. But Burn thinks the pack is wasting time with you three. Hating Trollocs is about all there is to him, and if there are Trollocs this far south he wants to be off killing them." "We quite understand," Egwene said, sounding relieved. "We really can find our own way ... with some directions, of course, if youll give them. " a hand. "I said Dapple leads this pack, didnt I? In the morning, Ill start south with you, and so will they." Egwene looked as if that was not the best news she could have heard. Perrin sat wrapped in his own silence. He could feel Burn leaving. And the scarred male was not the only one; a dozen others, all young males, loped after him. He wanted to believe it was all Elyas playing on his imagination, but he could not. Just before the departing wolves faded from his mind, he felt a thought he knew came from Burn, as sharp and clear as if it were his own thought. Hatred. Hatred and the taste of blood. 