 15 () 15 Strangers and Friends Sunlight streaming across his narrow bed finally woke Rand out of a deep but restless sleep. He pulled a pillow over his head, but it did not really shut out the light, and he did not really want to go back to sleep. There had been more dreams after the first. He could not remember any but the first, but he knew he wanted no more. With a sigh he tossed the pillow aside and sat up, wincing as he stretched. All the aches he thought had soaked out in the bath were back. And his head still hurt, too. It did not surprise him. A dream like that was enough to give anybody a headache. The others had already faded, but not that one. The other beds were empty. Light poured in through the window at a steep angle; the sun stood well above the horizon. By this hour back on the farm he would have already fixed something to eat and been well into his chores. He scrambled out of bed, muttering angrily to himself. A city to see, and they did not even wake him. At least someone had seen that there was water in the pit He washed and dressed quickly, hesitating a moment over Tams sword. Lan and Thom had left their saddlebags and blanketrolls behind in the room, of course, but the Warders sword was nowhere to be seen. Lan had worn his sword in Emonds Field even before there was any hint of trouble. He thought he would take the older mans lead. Telling himself it was not because he had often daydreamed about walking the streets of a real city wearing a sword, he belted it on and tossed his cloak over his shoulder like a sack. Taking the stairs two at a time, he hurried down to the kitchen. That was surely the quickest place to get a bite, and on his only day in Baerlon he did not want to waste any more time than he already had. Blood and ashes, but they could have waked me. Master Fitch was in the kitchen, confronting a plump woman whose arms were covered in flour to her elbows, obviously the cook. Rather, she was confronting him, shaking her finger under his nose. Serving maids and scullions, potboys and spitboys, hurried about their tasks, elaborately ignoring what was going on in front of them. " ... my Cirri is a good cat," the cook was saying sharply, "and I wont hear a word otherwise, do you hear? Complaining about him doing his job too well, thats what youre doing, if you ask me." "I have had complaints," Master Fitch managed to get in. "Complaints, mistress. Half the guests -" "I wont hear of it. I just wont hear of it. If they want to complain about my cat, let them do the cooking. My poor old cat, whos just doing his job, and me, well go somewhere where were appreciated, see if we dont." She untied her apron and started to lift it over her head. "No!" Master Fitch yelped, and leaped to stop her. They danced in a circle with the cook trying to take her apron off and the innkeeper trying to put it back on her. "No, Sara," he panted. "Theres no need for this. No need, I say! What would I do without you? Cirris a fine cat. An excellent cat. Hes the best cat in Baerlon. If anyone else complains, Ill tell them to be thankful the cat is doing his job. Yes, thankful. You mustnt go. Sara? Sara!" The cook stopped their circling and managed to snatch her apron free of him. "All right, then. All right." Clutching the apron in both hands, she still did not retie it. "But if you expect me to have anything ready for midday, youd best get out of here and let me get to it. This may be your inn, but its my kitchen. Unless you want to do the cooking?" She made as if to hand the apron to him. Master Fitch stepped back with his hands spread wide. He opened his mouth, then stopped, looking around for the first time. The kitchen help still studiously ignored the cook and the innkeeper, and Rand began an intensive search of his coat pockets, though except for the coin Moiraine had given him there was nothing in them but a few coppers and a handful of odds and ends. His pocket knife and sharpening stone. Two spare bowstrings and a piece of string he had thought might be useful. "I am sure, Sara," Master Fitch said carefully, "that everything will be up to your usual excellence." With that he took one last suspicious look at the kitchen help, then left with as much dignity as he could manage. Sara waited until he was gone before briskly tying her apron strings again, then fastened her eye on Rand. "I suppose you want something to eat, eh? Well, come on in." She gave him a quick grin. "I dont bite, I dont, no matter what you may have seen as you shouldnt. Ciel, get the lad some bread and cheese and milk. Thats all there is right now. Sit yourself, lad. Your friends have all gone out, except one lad I understand wasnt feeling well, and I expect youll be wanting to do the same." One of the serving maids brought a tray while Rand took a stool at the table. He began eating as the cook went back to kneading her bread dough, but she was not finished talking. "You mustnt take any mind of what you saw, now. Master Fitch is a good enough man, though the best of you arent any bargains. Its the folk complaining as has him on edge, and what do they have to complain about? Would they rather find live rats than dead ones? Though it isnt like Cirri to leave his handiwork behind. And over a dozen? Cirri wouldnt let so many get into the inn, he wouldnt. Its a clean place, too, and not one to be so troubled. And all with backs broken." She shook her head at the strangeness of it all. The bread and cheese turned to ashes in Rands mouth. "Their backs were broken?" The cook waved a floury hand. "Think on happier things, thats my way of looking. Theres a gleeman, you know. In the common room right this minute. But then, you came with him, didnt you? You are one of those as came with Mistress Alys last evening, arent you? I thought you were. I wont get much chance to see this gleeman myself, Im thinking, not with the inn as full as it is, and most of them riffraff down from the mines." She gave the dough an especially heavy thump. "Not the sort wed let in most times, only the whole town is filled up with them. Better than some they could be, though, I suppose. Why, I havent seen a gleeman since before the winter, and ..." Rand ate mechanically, not tasting anything, not listening to what the cook said. Dead rats, with their backs broken. He finished his breakfast hastily, stammered his thanks, and hurried out. He had to talk to someone. The common room of the Stag and Lion shared little except its purpose with the same room at the Winespring Inn. It was twice as wide and three times as long, and colorful pictures of ornate buildings with gardens of tall trees and bright flowers were painted high on the walls. Instead of one huge fireplace, a hearth blazed on each wall, and scores of tables filled the floor, with almost every chair, bench, or stool taken. Every man among the crowd of patrons with pipes in their teeth and mugs in their fists leaned forward with his attention on one thing: Thom, standing atop a table in the middle of the room, his many colored cloak tossed over a nearby chair. Even Master Fitch held a silver tankard and a polishing cloth in motionless hands. " ... prancing, silver hooves and proud, arched necks," Thom proclaimed, while somehow seeming not only to be riding a horse, but to be one of a long procession of riders. "Silken manes flutter with tossed heads. A thousand streaming banners whip rainbows against an endless sky. A hundred brazenthroated trumpets shiver the air, and drums rattle like thunder. Wave on wave, cheers roll from watchers in their thousands, roll across the rooftops and towers of Illian, crash and break unheard around the thousand ears of riders whose eyes and hearts shine with their sacred quest. The Great Hunt of the Horn rides forth, rides to seek the Horn of Valere that will summon the heroes of the Ages back from the grave to battle for the Light ..." It was what the gleeman had called Plain Chant, those nights beside the fire on the ride north. Stories, he said, were told in three voices, High Chant, Plain Chant, and Common, which meant simply telling it the way you might tell your neighbor about your crop. Thom told stories in Common, but he did not bother to hide his contempt for the voice. Rand closed the door without going in and slumped against the wall. He would get no advice from Thom. Moiraine - what would she do if she knew? He became aware of people staring at him as they passed, and realized he was muttering under his breath. Smoothing his coat, he straightened. He had to talk to somebody. The cook had said one of the others had not gone out. It was an effort not to run. When he rapped on the door of the room where the other boys had slept and poked his head in, only Perrin was there, lying on his bed and still not dressed. He twisted his head on the pillow to look at Rand, then closed his eyes again. Mats bow and quiver were propped in the corner. rd you werent feeling well," Rand said. He came in and sat on the next bed. "I just wanted to talk. I ..." He did not know how to bring it up, he realized. "If youre sick," he said, half standing, "maybe you ought to sleep. I can go." "I dont know if Ill ever sleep again." Perrin sighed. "I had a bad dream, if you must know, and couldnt get back to sleep. Mat will quick enough to tell you. He laughed this morning, when I told them why I was too tired to go out with him, but he dreamed; too. I listened to him for most of the night, tossing and muttering, and you cant tell me he got a good nights sleep." He threw a thick arm across his eyes. "Light, but Im tired. Maybe if I just stay here for an hour or two, Ill feel like getting up. Mat will never let me hear the end of it if I miss seeing Baerlon because of a dream. " Rand slowly lowered himself to the bed again. He licked his lips, then said quickly, "Did he kill a rat?" Perrin lowered his arm and stared at him. "You, too?" he said finally. When Rand nodded, he said, "I wish I was back home. He told me ... he said ... What are we going to do? Have you told Moiraine?" "No. Not yet. Maybe I wont. I dont know. What about you?" "He said ... Blood and ashes, Rand, I dont know." Perrin raised up on his elbow abruptly. "Do you think Mat had the same dream? He laughed, but it sounded forced, and he looked funny when I said I couldnt sleep "Maybe he did," Rand said. Guiltily, he felt relieved he was not the only one. "I was going to ask Thom for advice. Hes seen a lot of the world. You ... you dont think we should tell Moiraine, do you?" Perrin fell back on his pillow. "Youve heard the stories about Aes Sedai. Do you think we can trust Thom? If we can trust anybody. Rand, if we get out of this alive, if we ever get back home, and you hear me say anything about leaving Emonds Field, even to go as far as Watch Hill, you kick me. All right?" "Thats no way to talk," Rand said. He put on a smile, as cheerful as he could make it. "Of course well get home. Come on, get up. Were in a city, and we have a whole day to see it. Where are your clothes?" "You go. I just want to lie here awhile." Perrin put his arm back across his eyes. "You go ahead. Ill catch you up in an hour or two." "Its your loss," Rand said as he got up. "Think of what you might miss." He stopped at the door. "Baerlon. How many times have we talked about seeing Baerlon one day?" Perrin lay there with his eyes covered and did not say a word. After a minute Rand stepped out and closed the door behind him. In the hallway he leaned against the wall, his smile fading. His head still hurt; it was worse, not better. He could not work up much enthusiasm for Baerlon, either, not now. He could not summon enthusiasm about anything. A chambermaid came by, her arms full of sheets, and gave him a concerned look. Before she could speak he moved off down the hall, shrugging into his cloak. Thom would not be finished in the common room for hours yet. He might as well see what he could. Perhaps he could find Mat, and see if Baalzamon had been in his dreams, too. He went downstairs more slowly this time, rubbing his temple. The stairs ended near the kitchen, so he took that way out, nodding to Sara but hurrying on when she seemed about to take up where she had left off. The stableyard was empty except for Mutch, standing in the stable door, and one of the other ostlers carrying a sack on his shoulder into the stable. Rand nodded to Mutch, too, but the stableman gave him a truculent look and went inside. He hoped the rest of the city was more like Sara and less like Mutch. Ready to see what a city was like, he picked up his step. At the open stableyard gates, he stopped and stared. People packed the street like sheep in a pen, people swathed to the eyes in cloaks and coats, hats pulled down against the cold, weaving in and out at a quick step as though the wind whistling over the rooftops blew them along, elbowing past one another with barely a word or a glance. All strangers, he thought. None of them know each other. The smells were strange, too, sharp and sour and sweet all mixed in a hodgepodge that had him rubbing his nose. Even at the height of Festival he had never seen so many people so jammed together. Not even half so many. And this was only one street. Master Fitch and the cook said the whole city was full. The whole city ... like this? He backed slowly away from the gate, away from the street full of people. It really was not right to go off and leave Perrin sick in bed. And what if Thom finished his storytelling while Rand was off in the city? The gleeman might go out himself, and Rand needed to talk to someone. Much better to wait a bit. He breathed a sigh of relief as he turned his back on the swarming street. Going back inside the inn did not appeal to him, though, not with his headache. He sat on an upended barrel against the back of the inn and hoped the cold air might help his head. Mutch came to the stable door from time to time to stare at him, and even across the stableyard he could make out the fellows disapproving scowl. Was it country people the man did not like? Or had he been embarrassed by Master Fitch greeting them after he had tried to chase them off for coming in the back way? Maybe hes a Darkfriend, he thought, expecting to chuckle at the idea, but it was not a funny thought. He rubbed his hand along the hilt of Tams sword. There was not much left that was funny at all. "A shepherd with a heronmark sword," said a low, womans voice. "Thats almost enough to make me believe anything. What trouble are you in, downcountry boy?" Startled, Rand jumped to his feet. It was the crophaired young woman who had been with Moiraine when he came out of the bath chamber, still dressed in a boys coat and breeches. She was a little older than he was, he thought, with dark eyes even bigger than Egwenes, and oddly intent. "You are Rand, arent you?" she went on. "My name is Min." "Im not in trouble," he said. He did not know what Moiraine had told her, but he remembered Lans admonition not to attract any notice. "What makes you think Im in trouble? The Two Rivers is a quiet place, and were all quiet people. No place for trouble, unless it has to do with crops, or sheep." "Quiet?" Min said with a faint smile. "Ive heard men talk about you Two Rivers folk. Ive heard the jokes about woodenheaded sheepherders, and then there are men who have actually been downcountry." "Woodenheaded?" Rand said, frowning. "What jokes?" "The ones who know," she went on as if he had not spoken, "say you walk around all smiles and politeness, just as meek and soft as butter. On the surface, anyway. Underneath, they say, youre all as tough as old oak roots. Prod too hard, they say, and you dig up stone. But the stone isnt buried very deep in you, or in your friends. Its as if a storm has scoured away almost all the covering. Moiraine didnt tell me everything, but I see what see." Old oak roots? Stone? It hardly sounded like the sort of thing the merchants or their people would say. That last made him jump, though. He looked around quickly; the stableyard was empty; and the nearest windows were closed. "I dont know anybody named - what was it again?" "Mistress Alys, then, if you prefer," Min said with an amused look that made his cheeks color. "Theres no one close enough to hear." makes you think Mistress Alys has another name?" "Because she told me," Min said, so patiently that he blushed again. "Not that she had a choice, I suppose. I saw she was ... different ... right away. When she stopped here before, on her way downcountry. She knew about me. Ive talked to ... others like her before." "Saw?" Rand said. "Well, I dont suppose youll go running to the Children. Not considering who your traveling companions are. The Whitecloaks wouldnt like what I do any more than they like what she does." "I dont understand." "She says I see pieces of the Pattern. " Min gave a little laugh and shook her head. "Sounds too grand, to me. I just see things when I look at people, and sometimes I know what they mean. I look at a man and a woman whove never even talked to one another, and I know theyll marry. And they do. That sort of thing. She wanted me to look at you. All of you together. " Rand shivered. "And what did you see?" "When youre all in a group? Sparks swirling around you, thousands of them, and a big shadow, darker than midnight. Its so strong, I almost wonder why everybody cant see it. The sparks are trying to fill the shadow, and the shadow is trying to swallow the sparks." She shrugged. "You are all tied together in something dangerous, but I cant make any more of it." "All of us?" Rand muttered. "Egwene, too? But they werent after - I mean -" Min did not seem to notice his slip. "The girl -? Shes part of it. And the gleeman. All of you. Youre in love with her." He stared at her. "I can tell that even without seeing any images. She loves you, too, but shes not for you, or you for her either. Not the way you both want. " "Whats that supposed to mean?" "When I look at her, I see the same as when I look at ... Mistress Alys. Other things, things I dont understand, too, but I know what that means. She wont refuse it." "This is all foolishness," Rand said uncomfortably. His headache was fading to numbness; his head felt packed with wool. He wanted to get away from this girl and the things she saw. And yet ..." What do you see when you look at ... the rest of us?" "All sorts of things," Min said, with a grin as if she knew what he really wanted to ask. "The War ... ah ... Master Andra has seven ruined towers around his head, and a babe in a cradle holding a sword, and ... " She shook her head. "Men like him - you understand? - always have so many images they crowd one another. The strongest images around the gleeman are a man - not him - juggling fire, and the White Tower, and that doesnt make any sense at all for a man. The strongest things I see about the big, curlyhaired fellow are a wolf, and a broken crown, and trees flowering all around him. And the other one - a red eagle, an eye on a balance scale, a dagger with a ruby, a horn, and a laughing face. There are other things, but you see what I mean. This time I cant make up or down out of any of it." She waited then, still grinning, until he finally cle "What about me?" Her grin stopped just short of outright laughter. "The same kind of things as the rest. A sword that isnt a sword, a golden crown of laurel leaves, a beggars staff, you pouring water on sand, a bloody hand and a whitehot iron, three women standing over a funeral bier with you on it, black rock wet with blood -" "All right," he broke in uneasily. "You dont have to list it all." "Most of all, I see lightning around you, some striking at you, some coming out of you. I dont know what any of it means, except for one thing. You and I will meet again." She gave him a quizzical look, as if she did not understand that either. "Why shouldnt we?" he said. "Ill be coming back this way on my way home." "I suppose you will, at that." Suddenly her grin was back, wry and mysterious, and she patted his cheek. "But if I told you everything I saw, youd be as curlyhaired as your friend with the shoulders." He jerked back from her hand as if it were redhot. "What do you mean? Do you see anything about rats? Or dreams?" "Rats! No, no rats. As for dreams, maybe its your idea of a dream, but I never thought it was mine. " He wondered if she was crazy, grinning like that. "I have to go," he said, edging around her. "I ... I have to meet my friends." "Go, then. But you wont escape." He didnt exactly break into a run, but every step he took was quicker than the step before. "Run, if you want," she called after him. "You cant escape from me." Her laughter sped him across the stableyard and out into the street, into the hubbub of people. Her last words were too close to what Baalzamon had said. He blundered into people as he hurried through the crowd, earning hard looks and hard words, but he did not slow down until he was several streets away from the inn. After a time he began to pay attention again to where he was. His head felt like a balloon, but he stared and enjoyed anyway. He thought Baerlon was a grand city, if not exactly in the same way as cities in Thoms stories. He wandered up broad streets, most paved with flagstone, and down narrow, twisting lanes, wherever chance and the shifting of the crowd took him. It had rained during the night, and the streets that were unpaved had already been churned to mud by the crowds, but muddy streets were nothing new to him. None of the streets in Emonds Field was paved. There certainly were no palaces, and only a few houses were very much bigger than those back home, but every house had a roof of slate or tile as fine as the roof of the Winespring Inn. He supposed there would be a palace or two in Caemlyn. As for inns, he counted nine, not one smaller than the Winespring and most as large as the Stag and Lion, and there were plenty of streets he had not seen yet. Shops dotted every street, with awnings out front sheltering tables covered with goods, everything from cloth to books to pots to boots. It was as if a hundred peddlers wagons had spilled out their contents. He stared so much that more than once he had to hurry on at the suspicious look of a shopkeeper. He had not understood the first shopkeepers stare. When he did understand, he started to get angry until he remembered that here he was the stranger. He could not have bought much, anyway. He gasped when he saw how many coppers were exchanged for a dozen discolored apples or a handful of shrivelled turnips, the sort that would be fed to the horses in the Two Rivers, but people seemed eager to pay. There were certainly more than enough people, to his estimation. For a while the sheer number of them almost overwhelmed him. Some wore clothes of finer cut than anyone in the Two Rivers - almost as fine as Moiraines - and quite a few had long, furlined coats that flapped around their ankles. The miners everybody at the inn kept talking about, they had the hunched look of men who grubbed underground. But most of the people did not look any different from those he had grown up with, not in dress or in face. He had expected they would, somehow. Indeed, some of them had so much the look of the Two Rivers in their faces that he could imagine they belonged to one family or another that he knew around Emonds Field. A toothless, grayhaired fellow with ears like jug handles, sitting on a bench outside one of the inns and peering mournfully into an empty tankard, could easily have been Bili Congars close cousin. The lanternjawed tailor sewing in front of his shop might have been Jon Thanes brother, even to the same bald spot on the back of his head. A near mirror image of Samel Crawe pushed past Rand as he turned a corner, and ... In disbelief he stared at a bony little man with long arms and a big nose, shoving hurriedly through the crowd in clothes that looked like a bundle of rags . The mans eyes were sunken and his dirty face gaunt, as if he had not eaten or slept in days, but Rand could swear ... The ragged man saw him then, and froze in midstep, heedless of people who all but stumbled over him. The last doubt in Rands mind vanished. "Master Fain!" he shouted. "We all thought you were - " As quick as a blink the peddler darted away, but Rand dodged after him, calling apologies over his shoulder to the people he bumped. Through the crowd he just caught sight of Fain dashing into an alleyway, and he turned after. A few steps into the alleyway the peddler had stopped in his tracks. A tall fence made it into a dead end. As Rand skidded to a halt, Fain rounded on him, crouching warily and backing away. He flapped grimy hands at Rand to stay back. More than one rip showed in his coat, and his cloak was worn and tattered as if it had seen much harder use than it was meant for. "Master Fain?" Rand said hesitantly. "What is the matter? Its me, Rand alThor, from Emonds Field. We all thought the Trollocs had taken you. " Fain gestured sharply and, still in a crouch, ran a few crabbed steps toward the open end of the alley. He did not try to pass Rand, or even come close to him. "Dont!" he rasped. His head shifted constantly as he tried to see everything in the street beyond Rand. "Dont mention" - his voice dropped to a hoarse whisper, and he turned his head away, watching Rand with quick, sidelong glances-"them. There be Whitecloaks in the town." have no reason to bother us," Rand said. "Come back to the Stag and Lion with me. Im staying there with friends. You know most of them. Theyll be glad to see you, we all thought you were dead." "Dead?" the peddler snapped indignantly. "Not Padan Fain. Padan Fain knows which way to jump and where to land. " He straightened his rags as if they were feastday clothes. "Always have, and always will. Ill live a long time. Longer than -" Abruptly his face tightened and his hands clutched hold of his coat front. "They burned my wagon, and all my goods. Had no cause to be doing that, did they? I couldnt get to my horses. My horses, but that fat old innkeeper had them locked up in his stable. I had to step quick not to get my throat slit, and what did it get me? All that Ive got left is what I stand up in. Now, is that fair? Is it, now?" "Your horses are safe in Master alVeres stable. You can get them anytime. If you come to the inn with me, Im sure Moiraine will help you get back to the Two Rivers." " Aaaaah! Shes ... shes the Aes Sedai, is she?" A guarded look came over Fains face. "Maybe, though ..." He paused, licking his lips nervously. "How long will you be at this-What was it? What did you call it? - the Stag and Lion?" "We leave tomorrow," Rand said. "But what does that have to do with -?" "You just dont know," Fain whined, "standing there with a full belly and a good nights sleep in a soft bed. Ive hardly slept a wink since that night. My boots are all worn out with running, and as for what Ive had to eat ..." His face twisted. "I dont want to be within miles of an Aes Sedai," he spat the last words, "not miles and miles, but I may have to. Ive no choice, have I? The thought of her eyes on me, of her even knowing where I am ..." He reached toward Rand as if he wanted to grab his coat, but his hands stopped short, fluttering, and he actually took a step back. "Promise me you wont tell her. She frightens me. Theres no need to be telling her, no reason for an Aes Sedai to even be knowing Im alive. You have to promise. You have to!" "I promise," Rand said soothingly. "But theres no reason for you to be afraid of her. Come with me. The least youll get is a hot meal." "Maybe. Maybe." Fain rubbed his chin pensively. "Tomorrow, you say? In that time ... You wont forget your promise? You wont be letting her ... ?" "I wont let her hurt you," Rand said, wondering how be could stop an Aes Sedai, whatever she wanted to do. "She wont hurt me," Fain said. "No, she wont. I wont be letting her." Like a flash he hared past Rand into the crowd. "Master Fain!" Rand called. "Wait!" He dashed out of the alley just in time to catch sight of a ragged coat disappearing around the next comer. Still calling, he ran after it, darted around the comer. He only had time to see a mans back before he crashed into it and they both went "Cant you watch where youre going?" came a mutter from under him, and Rand scrambled up in surprise. "Mat?" Mat sat up with a baleful glare and began scraping mud off his cloak with his hands. "You must really be turning into a city man. Sleep all morning and run right over people. " Climbing to his feet, he stared at his muddy hands, then muttered and wiped them off on his cloak. "Listen, youll never guess who I thought I just saw. " "Padan Fain," Rand said. "Padan Fa - How did you know?" "I was talking to him, but he ran off." "So the Tro-" Mat stopped to look around warily, but the crowd was passing them by with never a glance. Rand was glad he had learned a little caution. "So they didnt get him. I wonder why he left Emonds Field, without a word like that? Probably started running then, too, and didnt stop until he got here. But why was he running just now?" Rand shook his head and wished he had not. It felt as though it might fall off. "I dont know, except that hes afraid of M ... Mistress Alys." All this watching what you said was not easy. "He doesnt want her to know hes here. He made me promise I wouldnt tell her." "Well, his secret is safe with me," Mat said. "I wish she didnt know where I was, either." "Mat?" People still streamed by without paying them any heed, but Rand lowered his voice anyway, and leaned closer. "Mat, did you have a nightmare last night? About a man who killed a rat?" Mat stared at him without blinking. "You, too?" he said finally. "And Perrin, I suppose. I almost asked him this morning, but ... He must have. Blood and ashes! Now somebodys making us dream things. Rand, I wish nobody knew where I was." "There were dead rats all over the inn this morning." He did not feel as afraid at saying it as he would have earlier. He did not feel much of anything. "Their backs were broken." His voice rang in his own ears. If he was getting sick, he might have to go to Moiraine. He was surprised that even the thought of the One Power being used on him did not bother him. Mat took a deep breath, hitching his cloak, and looked around as if searching for somewhere to go. "Whats happening to us, Rand? What?" "I dont know. Im going to ask Thom for advice. About whether to tell ... anyone else. " "No! Not her. Maybe him, but not her." The sharpness of it took Rand by surprise. "Then you believed him?" He did not need to say which "him" he meant; the grimace on Mats face said he understood. "No," Mat said slowly. "Its the chances, thats all. If we tell her, and he was lying, then maybe nothing happens. Maybe. But maybe just him being in our dreams is enough for ... I dont know." He stopped to swallow. "If we dont tell her, maybe well have some more dreams. Rats or no rats, dreams are better than ... Remember the ferry? I say we keep quiet." "All right." Rand remembered the ferry - and Moiraines threat, too-but somehow it seemed a long time ago. "All right." "Perrin wont say anything, will he?" Mat went on, bouncing on his toes. "We have to get back to him. If he tells her, shell figure it out about all of us. You can bet on it. Come on." He started off briskly through the crowd. Rand stood there looking after him until Mat came back and grabbed him. At the touch on his arm he blinked, then followed his friend. "Whats the matter with you?" Mat asked. "You going to sleep again?" "I think I have a cold," Rand said: His head was as tight as a drum, and almost as empty. "You can get some chicken soup when we get back to the inn," Mat said. He kept up a constant chatter as they hunted through the packed streets. Rand made an effort to listen, and even to say something now and then, but it was an effort. He was not tired; he did not want to sleep. He just felt as if he were drifting. After a while he found himself telling Mat about Min. ger with a ruby, eh?" Mat said. "I like that. I dont know about the eye, though. Are you sure she wasnt making it up? It seems to me she would know what it all means if she really is a soothsayer." "She didnt say shes a soothsayer," Rand said. "I believe she does see things. Remember, Moiraine was talking to her when we finished our baths. And she knows who Moiraine is." Mat frowned at him. "I thought we werent supposed to use that name." "No," Rand muttered. He rubbed his head with both hands. It was so hard to concentrate on anything. "I think maybe you really are sick," Mat said, still frowning. Suddenly he pulled Rand to a stop by his coat sleeve. "Look at them." Three men in breastplates and conical steel caps, burnished till they shone like silver, were making their way down the street toward Rand and Mat. Even the mail on their arms gleamed. Their long cloaks, pristine white and embroidered on the left breast with a golden sunburst, just cleared the mud and puddles of the street. Their hands rested on their sword hilts, and they looked around them as if looking at things that had wriggled out from under a rotting log. Nobody looked back, though. Nobody even seemed to notice them. Just the same, the three did not have to push through the crowd; the bustle parted to either side of the whitecloaked men as if by happenstance, leaving them to walk in a clear space that moved with them. "Do you suppose theyre Children of the Light?" Mat asked in a loud voice. A passerby looked hard at Mat, then quickened his pace. Rand nodded. Children of the Light. Whitecloaks. Men who hated Aes Sedai. Men who told people how to live, causing trouble for those who refused to obey. If burned farms and worse could be called as mild as trouble. I should be afraid, he thought. Or curious. Something, at any rate. Instead he stared at them passively. "They dont look like so much to me," Mat said. "Full of themselves, though, arent they?" "They dont matter," Rand said. "The inn. We have to talk to Perrin." "Like Eward Congar. He always has his nose in the air, too." Suddenly Mat grinned, a twinkle in his eye. "Remember when he fell off the Wagon Bridge and had to tramp home dripping wet? That took him down a peg for a month." "What does that have to do with Perrin?" "See that?" Mat pointed to a cart resting on its shafts in an alleyway just ahead of the Children. A single stake held a dozen stacked barrels in place on the flat bed. "Watch." Laughing, he darted into a cutlers shop to their left. Rand stared after him, knowing he should do something. That look in Mats eyes always meant one of his tricks. But oddly, he found himself looking forward to whatever Mat was going to do. Something told him that feeling was wrong, that it was dangerous, but he smiled in anticipation anyway. In a minute Mat appeared above him, climbing half out of an attic window onto the tile roof of the shop. His sling was in his hands, already beginning to whirl. Rands eyes went back to the cart. Almost immediately there was a sharp crack, and the stake holding the barrels broke just as the Whitecloaks came abreast of the alley. People jumped out of the way as the barrels rolled down the cart shafts with an empty rumble and jounced into the street, splashing mud and muddy water in every direction. The three Children jumped no less quickly than anyone else, their superior looks replaced by surprise. Some passersby fell down, making more splashes, but the three moved agilely, avoiding the barrels with ease. They could not avoid the flying mud that splattered their white cloaks, though. A bearded man in a long apron hurried out of the alley, waving his arms and shouting angrily, but one look at the three trying vainly to shake the mud from their cloaks and he vanished back into the alley even faster than he had come out. Rand glanced up at the shop roof; Mat was gone. It had been an easy shot for any Two Rivers lad, but the effect was certainly all that could be hoped for. He couId not help laughing; the humor seemed to be wrapped in wool, but it was still funny. When he turned back to the street, the three Whitecloaks were staring straight at him. "You find something funny, yes?" The one who spoke stood a little in front of the others. He wore an arrogant, unblinking look, with a light in his eyes as if he knew something important, something no one else knew. Rands laughter cut off short. He and the Children were alone with the mud and the barrels. The crowd that had been all around them had found urgent business up or down the street. "Does fear of the Light hold your tongue?" Anger made the Whitecloaks narrow face seem even more pinched. He glanced dismissively at the sword hilt sticking out from Rands cloak. "Perhaps you are responsible for this, yes?" Unlike the others he had a golden knot beneath the sunburst on his cloak. Rand moved to cover the sword, but instead swept his cloak back over his shoulder. In the back of his head was a frantic wonder at what he was doing, but it was a distant thought. "Accidents happen," he said. "Even to the Chi The narrowfaced man raised an eyebrow. "You are that dangerous, youngling?" He was not much older than Rand. "Heronmark, Lord Bornhald," one of the others said warningly. The narrowfaced man glanced at Rands sword hilt again - the bronze heron was plain - and his eyes widened momentarily. Then his gaze rose to Rands face, and he sniffed dismissively. "He is too young. You are not from this place, yes?" he said coldly to Rand. "You come from where?" "I just arrived in Baerlon. " A tingling thrill ran along Rands arms and legs. He felt flushed, almost warm. "You wouldnt know of a good inn, would you?" "You avoid my questions," Bornhald snapped. "What evil is in you that you do not answer me?" His companions moved up to either side of him, faces hard and expressionless. Despite the mudstains on their cloaks, there was nothing funny about them now. The tingling filled Rand; the heat had grown to a fever. He wanted to laugh, it felt so good. A small voice in his head shouted that something was wrong, but all he could think of was how full of energy he felt, nearly bursting with it. Smiling, he rocked on his heels and waited for what was going to happen. Vaguely, distantly, he wondered what it would be. The leaders face darkened. One of the others drew his sword enough for an inch of steel to show and spoke in a voice quivering with anger. "When the Children of the Light ask questions, you grayeyed bumpkin, we expect answers, or - " He cut off as the narrowfaced man threw an arm across his chest. Bornald jerked his head up the street. The Town Watch had arrived, a dozen men in round steel caps and studded leather jerkins, carrying quarterstaffs as if they knew how to use them. They stood watching, silently, from ten paces off. "This town has lost the Light," growled the man who had half drawn his sword. He rinsed his voice to shout at the Watch. "Baerlon stands in the Shadow of the Dark One!" At a gesture from Bornhald he slammed his blade back into its scabbard. Bornhald turned his attention back to Rand. The light of knowing burned in his eyes. "Darkfriends do not escape us, youngling, even in a town that stands in the Shadow. We will meet again. You may be sure of it!" He spun on his heel and strode away, his two companions close behind, as if Rand had ceased to exist. For the moment, at least. When they reached the crowded part of the street, the same seemingly accidental pocket as before opened around them. The Watchmen hesitated, eyeing Rand, then shouldered their quarterstaffs and followed the whitecloaked three. They had to push their way into the crowd, shouting, "Make way for the Watch!" Few did make way, except grudgingly. Rand still rocked on his heels, waiting. The tingle was so strong that be almost quivered; he felt as if he were burning up. Mat came out of the shop, staring at him. "You arent sick," he said finally. "You are crazy!" Rand drew a deep breath, and abruptly it was all gone like a pricked bubble. He staggered as it vanished, the realization of what he had just done flooding in on him. Licking his lips, he met Mats stare. "I think we had better go back to the inn, now," he said unsteadily. "Yes," Mat said. "Yes. I think we better had." The street had begun to fill up again, and more than one passerby stared at the two boys and murmured something to a companion. Rand was sure the story would spread. A crazy man had tried to start a fight with three Children of the Light. That was something to talk about. Maybe the dreams are driving me crazy. The two lost their way several times in the haphazard streets, but after a while they fell in with Thom Merrilin, making a grand procession all by himself through the throng. The gleeman said he was out to stretch his legs and for a bit of fresh air, but whenever anyone looked twice at his colorful cloak he would announce in a resounding voice, "I am at the Stag and Lion, tonight only." It was Mat who began disjointedly telling Thom about the dream and their worry over whether or not to tell Moiraine, but Rand joined in, for there were differences in exactly how they remembered it. Or maybe each dream was a little different, he thought. The major part of the dreams was the same, though. They had not gone far in the telling before Thom started paying full attention. When Rand mentioned Baalzamon, the gleeman grabbed them each by a shoulder with a command to hold their tongues, raised on tiptoe to look over the heads of the crowd, then hustled them out of the press to a deadend alley that was empty except for a few crates and a slatribbed, yellow dog huddled out of the cold. Thom stared out at the crowd, looking for anyone stopping to listen, before turning his attention to Rand and Mat. His blue eyes bored into theirs, between flickering away to watch the mouth of the alley. "Dont ever say that name where strangers can hear." His voice was low, but urgent. "Not even where a stranger might hear. It is a very dangerous name, even where Children of the Light are not wandering the streets." Mat snorted. "I could tell you about Children of the Light," he said with a wry look at Rand. Thom ignored him. "If only one of you had had this dream ..." He tugged at his mustache furiously. "Tell me everything you remember about it. Every detail." He kept up his wary watch while he listened. "... He named the men he said had been used," Rand said finally. He thought he had told everything else. "Guaire Amalasan. Raolin Darksbane." n," Mat added before he could go on. " And Yurian Stonebow." "And Logain," Rand finished. "Dangerous names," Thom muttered. His eyes seemed to drill at them even more intently than before. "Nearly as dangerous as that other, one way and another. All dead, now, except for Logain. Some long dead. Raolin Darksbane nearly two thousand years. But dangerous just the same. Best you dont say them aloud even when youre alone. Most people wouldnt recognize a one of them, but if the wrong person overhears ..." "But who were they?" Rand said. "Men," Thom murmured. "Men who shook the pillars of heaven and rocked the world on its foundations." He shook his head. "It doesnt matter. Forget about them. They are dust now." "Did the ... were they used, like he said?" Mat asked. "And killed?" "You might say the White Tower killed them. You might say that." Thoms mouth tightened momentarily, then he shook his head again. "But used ... ? No. I cannot see that. The Light knows the Amyrlin Seat has enough plots going, but I cant see that." Mat shivered. "He said so many things. Crazy things. All that about Lews Therin Kinslayer, and Artur Hawkwing. And the Eye of the World. What in the Light is that supposed to be?" "A legend," the gleeman said slowly. "Maybe. As big a legend as the Horn of Valere, at least in the Borderlands. Up there, young men go hunting the Eye of the World the way young men from Illian hunt the Horn. Maybe a legend." "What do we do, Thom?" Rand said. "Do we tell her? I dont want any more dreams like that. Maybe she could do something." "Maybe we wouldnt like what she did," Mat growled. Thom studied them, considering and stroking his mustache with a knuckle. "I say hold your peace," he said finally. "Dont tell anyone, for the time, at least. You can always change your mind, if you have to, but once you tell, its done, and youre tied up worse than ever with ... with her. "Suddenly he straightened, his stoop almost disappearing. "The other lad! You say he had the same dream? Does he have sense enough to keep his mouth shut? "I think so," Rand said at the same time that Mat said, "We were going back to the inn to warn him." "The Light send were not too late!" Cloak flapping around his ankles, patches fluttering in the wind, Thom strode out of the alley, looking back over his shoulder without stopping. "Well? Are your feet pegged to the ground?" Rand and Mat hurried after him, but he did not wait for them to catch up. This time he did not pause for people who looked at his cloak, or those who hailed him as a gleeman, either. He clove through the crowded streets as if they were empty, Rand and Mat half running to follow in his wake. In much less time than Rand expected they were hurrying up to the Stag and Lion. As they started in, Perrin came speeding out, trying to throw his cloak around his shoulders as he ran. He nearly fell in his effort not to carom into them. "I was coming looking for you two," he panted when he had caught his balance. Rand grabbed him by the arm. "Did you tell anyone about the dream?" "Say that you didnt," Mat demanded. "Its very important," Thom said. Perrin looked at them in confusion. "No, I havent. I didnt even get out of bed until less than an hour ago." His shoulders slumped. "Ive given myself a headache trying not to think about it, much less talk about it. Why did you tell him?" He nodded at the gleeman. "We had to talk to somebody or g "I will explain later," Thom added with a significant look at the people passing in and out of the Stag and Lion. "All right," Perrin replied slowly, still looking confused. Suddenly he slapped his head. "You almost made me forget why I was looking for you, not that I dont wish I could. Nynaeve is inside." "Blood and ashes!" Mat yelped. "How did she get here? Moirane... The ferry..." Perrin snorted. "You think a little thing like a sunken ferry could stop her? She rooted Hightower out - I dont know how he got back over the river, but she said he was hiding in his bedroom and didnt want to go near the river - anyway, she bullied him into finding a boat big enough for her and her horse and rowing her across. Himself. She only gave him time to find one of his haulers to work another set of oars." "Light!" Mat breathed. "What is she doing here?" Rand wanted to know. Mat and Perrin both gave him a scornful look. "She came after us," Perrin said. "Shes with ... with Mistress Alys right now, and its cold enough in there to snow." "Couldnt we just go somewhere else for a while?" Mat asked. "My da says, only a fool puts his hand in a hornet nest until he absolutely has to." Rand cut in. "She cant make us go back. Winternight should have been enough to make her see that. If she doesnt, we will have to make her." Mats eyebrows lifted higher with every word, and when Rand finished he let out a low whistle. "You ever try to make Nynaeve see something she doesnt want to see? I have. I say we stay away till night, and sneak in then." "From my observation of the young woman," Thom said, "I dont think she will stop until she has had her say. If she is not allowed to have it soon, she might keep on until she attracts attention none of us wants." That brought them all up short. They exchanged glances, drew deep breaths, and marched inside as if to face Trollocs. 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53Back to Table of contentTOP AUTHORSTerry PratchettDarren ShanSamantha YoungGav ThorpePamela PalmerGene WolfeF. Paul WilsonAmanda MaxlynJodi Ellen MalpasJill ShalvisSusan HillSherrilyn KenyonMegan ShepherdColleen GleasonKylie ScottCourtney SummersElizabeth KostovaYanna LeeTobias S. BuckellJennifer EstepGeorgia CatesEmma ChaseJ.C. ReedC.J. EllissonBrent WeeksKendare BlakeSam SykesMeg CabotNicole Peeler Philip AthansLauren KateS.D. PerryMax BrooksFritz LeiberMaryJanice DavidsonJames S.A. CoreyR.K. LilleyMolly McAdamsRobert McCammonKatja MillayCopyright © novelfull thefreeonlinenovel.com All Rights Reserved.