 Toggle navigationHomeLatest UpdateAdventureChristianFantasyHistoricalHorrorHumorousMysteryRomanceScience FictionThrillerWesternYoung AdultTop BooksPreySphereBlack RoseThe Great Train RobberyBlue DahliaCarnal InnocenceDance Upon the AirHigh NoonLawlessSacred SinsTributeFace the FireHolding the DreamA Man for AmandaAll the PossibilitiesNextThe Dragon Reborn 23 () 23 (Serpent and Wheel) Sealed Light pulled her apart fiber by fiber, sliced the fibers to hairs that drifted apart, burning. Drifting and burning, forever. Forever. Egwene stepped out of the silver arch cold and stiff with anger. She wanted the iciness of anger to counter the searing of memory. Her body remembered burning, but other memories scored and scorched more deeply. Anger cold as death. "Is that all there is for me?" she demanded. "To abandon him again and again. To betray him, fail him, again and again? Is that what there is for me?" Suddenly she realized that all was not as it should be. The Amyrlin was there now, as Egwene had been taught she would be, and a shawled sister from each Ajah, but they all stared at her worriedly. Two Aes Sedai now sat at each place around the terangreal, sweat running down their faces. The terangreal hummed, almost vibrated, and violent streaks of color tore the white light inside the arches. The glow of saidar briefly enveloped Sheriam as she put a hand on Egwenes head, sending a new chill through her. "She is well." The Mistress of Novices sounded relieved. "She is unharmed." As i Tension seemed to go out of the other Aes Sedai facing Egwene. Elaida let out a long breath, then hurried away for the last chalice. Only the Aes Sedai around the terangreal did not relax. The hum had lessened, and the light began the flickering that signaled the terangreal was settling toward quiescence, but those Aes Sedai looked as if they were fighting it every inch of the way. "What...? What happened?" Egwene asked. "Be silent," Sheriam said, but gently. "For now, be silent. You are well - that is the main thing - and we must complete the ceremony." Elaida came, close to running, and handed the final silver chalice to the Amyrlin. Egwene hesitated only a moment before kneeling. What happened? The Amyrlin emptied the chalice slowly over Egwenes head. "You are washed clean of Egwene alVere from Emonds Field. You are washed clean of all ties that bind you to the world. You come to us washed clean, in heart and soul. You are Egwene alVere, Accepted of the White Tower." The last drop splashed onto Egwenes hair. "You are sealed to us, now." The last words seemed to have a special meaning, just between Egwene and the Amyrlin. The Amyrlin thrust the chalice at one of the other Aes Sedai and produced a gold ring in the shape of a serpent biting its own tail. Despite herself, Egwene trembled as she raised her left hand, trembled again as the Amyrlin slipped the Great Serpent ring onto the third finger. When she became Aes Sedai, she could wear the ring on the finger she chose, or not at all if it was necessary to hide who she was, but the Accepted wore it there. Unsmiling, the Amyrlin pulled her to her feet. "Welcome, Daughter," she said, kissing her cheek. Egwene was surprised to feel a thrill. Not child, but daughter. Always before she had been child. The Amyrlin kissed her other cheek. "Welcome." Stepping back, the Amyrlin regarded her critically, but spoke to Sheriam. "Get her dry and into some clothes, then be certain she is well. Certain, you understand." "I am certain, Mother." Sheriam sounded surprised. "You saw me delve her." The Amyrlin grunted, and her eyes shifted to the terangreal. "I mean to know what went wrong tonight." She strode away in the direction of her glare, skirts swaying purposefully. Most of the other Aes Sedai joined her around the terangreal, now only a silver structure of arches on a ring. "The Mother is worried about you," Sheriam said as she drew Egwene to one side, to where there was a thick towel for her hair, and another for the rest of her."How much reason did she have?" Egwene asked. The Amyrlin wants nothing to happen to her hound till the deer is pulled down. Sheriam did not answer. She merely frowned slightly, then waited until Egwene was dry before handing her a white dress banded at the bottom with seven rings. She slipped into that dress with a flash of disappointment. She was one of the Accepted, with the ring on her finger and the bands on her dress. Why dont I feel any different? Elaida came over, her arms filled with Egwenes novice dress and shoes, her belt and pouch. And the papers Verin had given her. In Elaidas hands. Egwene made herself wait for the Aes Sedai to hand the bundle to her rather than snatch them away. "Thank you, Aes Sedai." She tried to eye the papers surreptitiously; she could not tell if they had been disturbed. The string was still tied. How would I know if shes read all of them? Squeezing her pouch under cover of the novice dress, she felt the peculiar ring, the terangreal, inside. At least thats still here. Light, she could have taken that, and I dont know that I would have minded. Yes, I would. I think I would. Elaidas face was as cold as her voice. "I did not want you to be brought forward tonight. Not because I feared what happened; no one could foresee that. But because of what you are. A wilder." Egwene tried to protest, but Elaida kept on, as implacable as a mountain glacier. "Oh, I know you learned to channel under Aes Sedai teaching, but you are still a wilder. A wilder in spirit, a wilder in ways. You have vast potential, else you would never have survived in there tonight, but potential changes nothing. I do not believe you will ever be part of the White Tower, not in the way the rest of us are, no matter on which finger you wear your ring. It would have been better for you had you settled for learning enough to stay alive, and gone back to your sleepy village. Far better." Turning on her heel, she stalked away, out of the chamber. If she isnt Black Ajah, Egwene thought sourly, shes the next thing to it. Aloud, she muttered to Sheriam, "You could have said something. You could have helped me." "I would have helped a novice, child," Sheriam replied calmly, and Egwene winced. She was back to "child" again. "I try to protect novices where they need it, since they cannot protect themselves. You are Accepted, now. It is time for you to learn to protect yourself." Egwene studied Sheriams eyes, wondering if she had imagined an emphasis on that last sentence. Sheriam had had as much opportunity as Elaida to read the list of names, to decide that Egwene was mixed in with the Black Ajah. Light, youre becoming suspicious of everybody. Better that than dead, or captured by thirteen of them and... Hastily, she stopped that line of thought; she did not want is in her head. "Sheriam, what did happen tonight?" she asked. "And dont put me off." Sheriams eyebrows rose almost to her scalp, it seemed, and she hastily amended her question. "Sheriam Sedai, I mean. Forgive me, Sheriam Sedai." "Remember you arent Aes Sedai yet, child." Despite the steel in her voice, a smile touched Sheriams lips, yet it vanished as she went on. "I do not know what happened. Except that I very much fear you almost died." "Who knows what happens to those who do not come out of a terangreal?" Alanna said as she joined them. The Green sister was known for her temper and her sense of humor, and some said she could flash from one to the other and back again before you could blink, but the look she gave Egwene was almost diffident. "Child, I should have stopped this when I had the chance, when I first noticed that - reverberation. It came back. That is what happened. It came back a thousandfold. Ten thousand. The terangreal almost seemed to be trying to shut off the flow from saidar - or melt itself through the floor. You have my apologies, though words are not enough. Not for what almost happened to you. I say this, and by the First Oath you know it is true. To show my feelings, I will ask the Mother to let me share your time in the kitchens. And, yes, your visit to Sheriam, too. Had I done as I should, you would not have been in danger of your life, and I Sheriams laugh was scandalized. "She will never allow that, Alanna. A sister in the kitchens, much less... It is unheard of. Its impossible! You did what you believed right. There is no fault to you." "It was not your fault, Alanna Sedai," Egwene said. Why is Alanna doing this? Unless maybe to convince me she didnt have anything to do with whatever went wrong. And maybe so she can keep an eye on me all the time. It was that image, a proud Aes Sedai up to her elbows in greasy pots three times a day just to watch someone, that convinced her she was letting her imagination run away with her . But it was also unthinkable that Alanna should do as she said she would. In any case, the Green sister certainly had had no chance to see the list of names while tending the terangreal. But if Nynaeve is right, she wouldnt need to see those names to want to kill me if she is Black Ajah. Stop that! "Really, it wasnt." "Had I done as I should," Alanna maintained, "it would never have happened. The only time I have ever seen anything like it was once years ago when we tried to use a terangreal in the same room with another that may have been in some way related to it. It is extremely rare to find two such as that. The pair of them melted, and every sister within a hundred paces had such a headache for a week that she couldnt channel a spark. Whats the matter, child?" Egwenes hand had tightened around her pouch till the twisted stone ring impressed itself on her palm through the thick cloth. Was it warm? Light, I did it myself. "Nothing, Alanna Sedai. Aes Sedai, you did nothing wrong. You have no reason to share my punishments. None at all. None!" "A bit vehement," Sheriam observed, "but true." Alanna only shook her head. "Aes Sedai," Egwene said slowly, "what does it mean to be Green Ajah?" Sheriams eyes opened wider with amusement, and Alanna grinned openly. "Just with the ring on your finger," the Green sister said, "and already trying to decide which Ajah to choose? First, you must love men. I dont mean be in love with them, but love them. Not like a Blue, who merely likes men, so long as they share her causes and do not get in her way. And certainly not like a Red, who despises them as if every one of them were responsible for the Breaking." Alviarin, the White sister who had come with the Amyrlin gave them a cool look and moved on. "And not like a White," Alanna said with a laugh, "who has no room in her life for any passions at all." "That was not what I meant, Alanna Sedai. I want to know what it means to be a Green sister." She was not sure Alanna would understand, because she was not certain she herself understood what she wanted to know, but Alanna nodded slowly as if she did. "Browns seek knowledge, Blues meddle in causes, and Whites consider the questions of truth with implacable logic. We all do some of it all, of course. But to be a Green means to stand ready." A note of pride entered Alannas voice. "In the Trolloc Wars, we were often called the Battle Ajah. All Aes Sedai helped where and when they could, but the Green Ajah alone was always with the armies, in almost every battle. We were the counter to the Dreadlords. The Battle Ajah. And now we stand ready, for the Trollocs to come south again, for Tarmon Gaidon, the Last Battle. We will be there. That is what it means to be a Green." "Thank you, Aes Sedai," Egwene said. That is what I want? Or what I will be? Light, I wish I knew if it was real, if it had anything at all to do with here and now. The Amyrlin joined them, and they swept deep curtsies to her. "Are you well, Daughter?" she asked Egwene. Her eyes flicked to the corner of the papers sticking out from under the novice dress in Egwenes hands, then back to Egwenes face immediately. "I will know the why of what occurred tonight before I am done." Egwenes cheeks reddened. "I am well, Mother." Alanna surprised her by asking the Amyrlin just what she had said she would. "I never heard of such a thing," the Amyrlin barked. "The owner doesnt muck out with the bilge boys even if he has run the boat on a mudflat." She glanced at Egwene, and worry tightened her eyes. And anger. "I share your concern, Alanna. Whatever this child has done, it did not deserve that. Very well. If it will assuage your feelings, you may visit Sheriam. But it is to be strictly between you two. Ill not have Aes Sedai held up to ridicule, even inside the Tower." Egwene opened her mouth to confess all and let them take the ring - I dont want the bloody thing, really - but Alanna forestalled her. "And the other, Mother? "Do not be ridiculous, Daughter." The Amyrlin was angry, and sounded more so by the word. "Youd be a laughingstock inside the day, except for those who decided you were mad. And dont think it would not follow you. Tales like that have a way of traveling. You would find stories told of the scullion Aes Sedai from Tear to Maradon. And that would reflect on every sister. No. If you need to rid yourself of some feeling of guilt and cannot handle it as a grown woman would, very well. I have told you that you may visit Sheriam. Accompany her tonight, when you leave here. That will give you the rest of the night to decide if it was of any help. And tomorrow you can start finding out what went wrong here tonight!" "Yes, Mother." Alannas voice was perfectly neutral. The desire to confess had died in Egwene. Alanna had shown only one brief flash of disappointment, when she realized the Amyrlin would not allow her to join Egwene in the kitchens. She doesnt want to be punished any more than any sensible person does. She did want an excuse to be in my company. Light, she couldnt have deliberately caused the terangreal to go wild; I did that. Can she be Black Ajah? Wrapped in thought, Egwene heard a throat cleared, then again, more roughly. Her eyes focused. The Amyrlin was staring right into her, and when she spoke, she bit off each word. "Since you seem to be asleep standing up, child, I suggest you go to bed." For one instant her glance flashed to the nearly concealed papers in Egwenes hands. "You have much work to do tomorrow, and for many days thereafter." Her eyes held Egwenes a moment longer, and then she was striding away before any of them could curtsy. Sheriam rounded on Alanna as soon as the Amyrlin was out of earshot. The Green Aes Sedai glowered and took it in silence. "You are mad, Alanna! A fool, and doubly a fool if you think I will go lightly on you just because we were novices together. Are you taken by the Dragon, to -?" Suddenly Sheriam became aware of Egwene, and the target of her anger shifted. "Did I not hear the Amyrlin Seat order you to your bed, Accepted? If you breathe a word of this, you will wish I had buried you in a field to manure the ground. And I will see you in my study in the morning, when the bell rings First and not one bre Egwene went, her head spinning. Is there anybody I can trust? The Amyrlin? She sent us off chasing thirteen of the Black Ajah and forgot to mention that thirteen is just the number needed to turn a woman who can channel to the Shadow against her will. Who can I trust? She did not want to be alone, could not stand the thought of it, and so she hurried to the Accepteds quarters, thinking that tomorrow she would be moving there herself, and immediately after knocking pushed open Nynaeves door. She could trust her with anything. Her and Elayne. But Nynaeve was seated in one of the two chairs, with Elaynes head buried in her lap. Elaynes shoulders shook to the sound of weeping, the softer weeping that comes after no energy is left for deeper sobs but the emotion still burns. Dampness shone on Nynaeves cheeks, too. The Great Serpent gleaming on her hand, smoothing Elaynes hair, matched the ring on the hand Elayne used to clutch at Nynaeves skirt. Elayne lifted a face red and swollen from long crying, sniffing through her sobs when she saw Egwene. "I could not be that awful, Egwene. I just couldnt!" The accident with the terangreal, Egwenes fear that someone might have read the papers Verin had given her, her suspicions of everyone in that chamber, all these had been terrible, but they had buffered her in a rough, ungentle way from what had happened inside the terangreal. They had come from outside; the other was inside. Elaynes words stripped the buffer away, and what was inside hit Egwene as if the ceiling had collapsed. Rand her husband, and Joiya her baby. Rand pinned and begging her to kill him. Rand chained to be gentled. Before she was aware of moving, she was on her knees beside Elayne, all the tears that should have fallen earlier coming out in a flood. "I couldnt help him, Nynaeve," she sobbed. "I just left him there." Nynaeve flinched as if struck, but the next moment her arms were around both Egwene and Elayne, hugging them, rocking them. "Hush," she crooned softly. "It eases with time. It eases, a little. One day we will make them pay our price. Hush. Hush." PROLOGUE 1 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 20 21 22 24 25 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 House, so it was me that the Guild held responsible 42 43 44 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56Back to Table of contentTOP AUTHORSTerry PratchettDarren ShanSamantha YoungGav ThorpePamela PalmerGene WolfeF. Paul WilsonAmanda MaxlynJodi Ellen MalpasJill ShalvisSusan HillSherrilyn KenyonMegan ShepherdColleen GleasonKylie ScottCourtney SummersElizabeth KostovaYanna LeeTobias S. BuckellJennifer EstepGeorgia CatesEmma ChaseJ.C. ReedC.J. EllissonBrent WeeksKendare BlakeSam SykesMeg CabotNicole Peeler Philip AthansLauren KateS.D. PerryMax BrooksFritz LeiberMaryJanice DavidsonJames S.A. CoreyR.K. LilleyMolly McAdamsRobert McCammonKatja Millay < Copyright © novelfull thefreeonlinenovel.com All Rights Reserved.