 Toggle navigationHomeLatest UpdateAdventureChristianFantasyHistoricalHorrorHumorousMysteryRomanceScience FictionThrillerWesternYoung AdultTop BooksPreySphereBlack RoseThe Great Train RobberyBlue DahliaCarnal InnocenceDance Upon the AirHigh NoonLawlessSacred SinsTributeFace the FireHolding the DreamA Man for AmandaAll the PossibilitiesNextThe Dragon Reborn 49 () 49 (Dice) A Storm in Tear Egwene finally returned to the table and her tea. She thought perhaps Elayne was right, that she had gone too far, but she could not bring herself to apologize, and they sat in silence. When Ailhuin returned, she had a man with her, a lean fellow in his middle years who looked as if he had been carved from aged wood. Juilin Sandar took off his clogs by the door and hung his flat, conical straw hat on a peg. A swordbreaker, much like Hurins but with short slots to either side of the long one, hung from a belt over his brown coat, and he carried a staff exactly as tall as he was, but not much thicker than his thumb and made of that pale wood, like ridged joints, that the oxdrivers used for their goads. His shortcut black hair lay flat on his head, and his quick, dark eyes seemed to note and record every detail of the room. And of everyone in it. Egwene would have bet he examined Nynaeve twice, and to her, at least, Nynaeves lack of reaction was blatant; it was obvious she knew it, too. Ailhuin motioned him to a place at the table, where he turned back the cuffs of his coat sleeves, bowed to each of them in turn, and sat with his staff propped against his shoulder, not speaking until the grayhaired woman had made a fresh pot of tea and everyone had sipped from their cups. "Mother Guenna has told me of your problem," he said quietly as he set his cup down. "I will help you if I can, but the High Lords may have their own business to put me to, soon." The big woman snorted. "Juilin, when did you begin haggling like a shopkeeper trying to charge silk prices for linen? Do not claim you know when the High Lords will summon you before they do." "I wont claim it," Sandar told her with a smile, "but I know when Ive seen men on the rooftops in the night. Just out of the corner of my eye - they can hide like pipefish in reeds - but I have seen the movement. No one has reported a theft yet, but there are thieves working inside the walls, and you can buy your supper with that. Mark me. Before another week, Ill be summoned to the Stone because a band of thieves is breaking into merchants houses, or even lords manors. The Defenders may guard the streets, but when thieves need tracking they send for a thiefcatcher, and me before any other. I am not trying to drive up my price, but whatever I do for these pretty women, I must do soon." "I believe he speaks the truth," Ailhuin said reluctantly. "Hell tell you the moon is green and water white if he thinks it will bring him a kiss, but he lies less than most men about other things. He may be the most honest man ever born in the Maule." Elayne put a hand over her mouth, and Egwene struggled not to laugh. Nynaeve sat unmove Sandar grimaced at the grayhaired woman, then apparently decided to ignore what she had said. He smiled at Nynaeve. "I will admit that Im curious about these thieves. Ive known women thieves, and bands of thieves, but I never heard of a band of women thieves before. And I owe Mother Guenna favors." His eyes seemed to record Nynaeve all over again. "What do you charge?" she asked sharply. "To recover stolen goods," he said briskly, "I ask the tenth part of the value of what I recover. For finding someone, I ask a silver mark for each person. Mother Guenna says the things stolen have little value except to you, mistress, so I suggest you take that choice." He smiled again; he had very white teeth. "I would not take money from you at all, except that the brotherhood would frown on it, but I will take as little as I can. A copper or two, no more." "I know a thieftaker," Elayne told him. "From Shienar. A very respectful man. He carries a sword as well as a swordbreaker. Why do you not?" Sandar looked startled for a moment, and then upset with himself for being startled. He had not caught her hint, or else had decided to ignore it. "You are not Tairen. I have heard of Shienar, mistress, tales of Trollocs, and every man a warrior." His smile said these were tales for children. "True stories," Egwene said. "Or true enough. I have been to Shienar." He blinked at her, and went on. "I am not a lord, nor a wealthy merchant, nor even a soldier. The Defenders do not trouble foreigners much for carrying swords - unless they mean to stay long, of course - but I would be thrust into a cell under the Stone. There are laws, mistress." His hand rubbed along his staff, as if unconsciously. "I do as well as may be, without a sword." He focused his smile on Nynaeve once more. "Now, if you will describe these things - " He stopped as she set her purse on the edge of the table and counted out thirteen silver marks. Egwene thought she had chosen the lightest coins; most were Tairen, only one Andoran. The Amyrlin had given them a great deal of gold, but even that would not last forever. Nynaeve looked into the purse thoughtfully before tightening the strings and putting it back into her pouch. "There are thirteen women for you to find, Master Sandar, with as much silver again when you do. Find them, and we will recover our property ourselves." "I will do that myself for less than this," he protested. "And theres no need for extra rewards. I charge what I charge. Have no fear Ill take a bribe." "There is no fear of that," Ailhuin agreed. "I said he is honest. Just do not believe him if he says he loves you." Sandar glared at her. "I pay the coin, Master Sandar," Nynaeve said firmly, "so I choose what I am buying. Will you find these women, and no more?" She waited for him to nod, reluctantly, before going on. "They may be together, or not. The first is a Taraboner. She is a little taller than I, with dark eyes and pale, honeycolored hair that she wears in many small braids after the Tarabon fashion. Some men might think her pretty, but she would not consider it a compliment. She has a mean, sulky mouth. The second is Kandori. She has long black hair with a white streak above her left ear, and..." She gave no names, and Sandar asked for none. Names were so easily changed. His smile was gone now that the business was at hand. Thirteen women she described as he listened intently, and when she was done, Egwene was sure he could have recited them back word for word. "Mother Guenna may have told you this," Nynaeve finished, "but I will repeat it. These women are more dangerous than you can believe. Over a dozen have died at their hands already, that I know of, and I would not be surprised if that was only a drop of the blood on their hands." Sandar and Ailhuin both blinked at that. "If they discover you are asking after them, you will die. If they take you, they will make you tell where we are, and Mother Guenna will probably die with us." The grayhaired woman looked disbelieving. "Believe it!" Nynaeves stare demanded agreement. "Believe it, or Ill take back the silver and find another with more brains!" "When I was young," Sandar said, voice serious, "a cutpurse put her knife in my ribs because I thought a pretty young girl wouldnt be as quick to stab as a man. I do not make that mistake anymore. I will behave as if these women are all Aes Sedai, and Black Ajah." Egwene almost choked, and he gave her a rueful grin as he scooped the coins into his own purse and stuck it behind his sash. "I did not mean to frighten you, mistress. There are no Aes Sedai in Tear. It may take a few days, unless they are together. Thirteen women together will be easy to find; apart, they will be harder. But either way, I will find them. And I will not frighten them away before you learn where they are." When he had donned his straw hat and clogs and departed by the back door, Elayne said, "I hope he is not overconfident. Ailhuin, I heard what he said but... He does understand that they are dangerous, does he not?" "He has never been a fool except for a pair of eyes or a pretty ankle," the grayhaired woman said, "and that is a failing of every man. He is the best thiefcatcher in Tear. Have no worry. He will find these Darkfriends of yours." "It will rain again before morning." Nynaeve shivered, despite the warmth of the room. "I feel a storm gathering." Ailhuin only shook her head and set about filling bowls with fish soup for supper. After they ate and cleaned up, Nynaeve and Ailhuin sat at the table talking of herbs and cures. Elayne worked on a small patch of embroidery she had begun on the shoulder of her cloak, tiny blue and white flowers, then read in a copy of The Essays of Willim of Manaches that Ailhuin had on her small shelf of books. Egwene tried reading, but neither the essays, nor The Travels of Jain Farstrider, nor the humorous tales of Aleria Elffin could hold her interest for more than a few pages. She fingered the stone terangreal through the bosom of her dress. Where are they? What do they want in the Heart? None but the Dragon - none but Rand - can touch Callandor, so what do they want? What? What? As night deepened, Ailhuin showed them each to a bedroom on the second floor, but after she had gone to her own, they gathered in Egwenes by the light of a single lamp. Egwene had already undressed to her shift; the cord hung round her neck with the two rings. The striped stone felt far heavier than the gold. This was what they had done every night since leaving Tar Valon, with the sole exception of "Wake me after an hour," she told them. Elayne frowned. "So short, this time?" "Do you feel uneasy?" Nynaeve said. "Perhaps you are using it too often." "We would still be in Tar Valon scrubbing pots and hoping to find a Black sister before a Gray Man found us if I had not," Egwene said sharply. Light, Elaynes right. I am snapping like a sulky child. She took a deep breath. "Perhaps I am uneasy. Maybe it is because we are so close to the Heart of the Stone, now. So close to Callandor. So close to the trap, whatever it is." "Be careful," Elayne said, and Nynaeve said, more quietly, "Be very careful, Egwene. Please." She was tugging her braid in short jerks. As Egwene lay down on the lowposted bed, with them on stools to either side, thunder rolled across the sky. Sleep came slowly. It was the rolling hills again, as always at first, flowers and butterflies under spring sunshine, soft breezes and birds singing. She wore green silk, this time, with golden birds embroidered over her breasts, and green velvet slippers. The terangreal seemed light enough to drift up out of her dress except for the weight of the Great Serpent ring holding it down. By simple trial and error she had learned a little of the rules of Telaranrhiod - even this World of Dreams, this Unseen World, had its rules, if odd ones; she was sure she did not know a tenth of them - and one way to make herself go where she wanted. Closing her eyes, she emptied her mind as she would have to embrace saidar. It was not as easy, because the rosebud kept trying to form, and she kept sensing the True Source, kept aching to embrace it, but she had to fill the emptiness with something else. She pictured the Heart of the Stone, as she had seen it in these dreams, formed it in every detail, perfect within the void. The huge, polished redstone columns. The ageworn stones of the floor. The dome, far overhead. The crystal sword, untouchable, slowly revolving hiltdown in midair. When it was so real she was sure she could reach out and touch it, she opened her eyes, and she was there, in the Heart of the Stone. Or the Heart of the Stone as it existed in Telaranrhiod. The columns were there, and Callandor. And around the sparkling sword, almost as dim and insubstantial as shadows, thirteen women sat crosslegged, staring at Callandor as it revolved. Honeyhaired Liandrin turned her head, looking straight at Egwene with those big, dark eyes, and her rosebud mouth smiled. Gasping, Egwene sat up in bed so fast she almost fell off the side. "What is the matter?" Elayne demanded. "What happened? You look frightened." "You only just closed your eyes," Nynaeve said softly. "This is the first time since the very beginning that youve come back without us waking you. Something did happen, didnt it?" She tugged her braid sharply. "Are you all right?" How did I get back? Egwene wondered. Light, I do not even know what I did. She knew she was only trying to put off what she had to say. Unfastening the cord around her neck, she held the Great Serpent ring and the larger, twisted terangreal on her palm. "They are waiting for us," she said finally. There was no need to say who. "And I think they know we are in Tear." Outside, the storm broke over the city. Rain drumming on the deck over his head, Mat stared at the stones board on the table between him and Thom, but he could not really concentrate on the game, even with an Andoran silver mark riding on the outcome. Thunder crashed, and lightning flashed in the small windows. Four lamps lit the captains cabin of the Swift. Bloody ship may be as sleek as the bird, but its still taking too bloody long. The vessel gave a small jolt, then another; the motion seemed to change. He had better not run us into the bloody mud! If he is not making the best time he can wring out of this buttertub, I will stuff that gold down his throat! Yawning - he had not slept well since leaving Caemlyn; he could not stop worrying enough to sleep well - yawning, he set a white stone on the intersection of two lines; in three moves, he would capture nearly a fifth of Thoms black stones. "You could be a good player, boy," the gleeman said around his pipe, placing his next stone, "if you put your mind to it." His tabac smelled like leaves and nuts. Mat reached for another stone from the pile at his elbow, then blinked and let it lie. In the same three moves, Thoms stones would surround over a third of his. He had not seen it coming, and he could see no escape. "Do you ever lose a game? Have you ever lost a game?" Thom removed his pipe and knuckled his mustaches. "Not in a long while. Morgase used to beat me about half the time. It is said good commanders of soldiers and good players of the Great Game are good at stones, as well. She is the one, and Ive no doubt she could command a battle, too." "Wouldnt you rather dice some more? Stones take too much time." "I like a chance to win more than one toss in nine or ten," the whitehaired man said dryly. Mat bounded to his feet as the door banged open to admit Captain Derne. The squarefaced man whipped his cloak from his shoulders, shaking the rain off and muttering curses to himself. "The Light sear my bones, I do not know why I ever let you hire Swift. You, demanding more flaming speed in the blackest night or the heaviest rain. More speed. Always more bloody speed! Could have run on a bloody mudflat a hundred times over by now!" "You wanted the gold," Mat said harshly. "You said this heap of old boards was fast, Derne. When do we reach Tear?" The captain smiled a tight smile. "We are tying off to the dock, now. And burn me for a bloody farmer if I carry anything that can flaming talk ever again! Now, where is the rest of my gold?" to one of the small windows and peered out. In the harsh glare of lightning flashes he could see a wet stone dock, if not much else. He fished the second purse of gold from his pocket and tossed it to Derne. Whoever heard of a riverman who didnt dice! "About time," he growled. Light send Im not too late. He had stuffed all of his spare clothes and his blankets into the leather script, and he hung that on one side of him and the roll of fireworks on the other, from the cord he tied to it. His cloak covered it all, but gapped a little in the front. Better he got wet than the fireworks. He could dry out and be as good as new; a test with a bucket had shown fireworks could not. I guess Rands da was right. Mat had always thought the Village Council would not set them off in the rain because they made a be "Arent you about ready to sell those things?" Thom was settling his gleemans cloak on his shoulders. It covered his leathercased harp and flute, but his bundle of clothes and blankets he slung on his back outside the patchcovered cloak. "Not until I figure out how they work, Thom. Besides, think what fun it will be when I set them all off." The gleeman shuddered. "As long as you dont do it all at once, boy. As long as you dont throw them in the fireplace at supper. Id not put it past you, the way youve been behaving with them. Youre lucky the captain here did not throw us off the ship two days ago." "He wouldnt." Mat laughed. "Not while that purse was in the offing. Eh, Derne?" Derne was tossing the purse of gold in his hand. "I have not asked before this, but youve given me the gold, now, and youll not take it back. What is this all about? All this flaming speed." "A wager, Derne." Yawning, Mat picked up his quarterstaff, ready to go. "A wager." "A wager!" Derne stared at the heavy purse. The other just like it was locked in his money chest. "There must be a flaming kingdom riding on it!" "More than that," Mat said. Rain bucketed down on the deck so hard that he could not see the gangplank except when lightning crackled above the city; the roar of the downpour barely let him hear himself think. He could see lights in windows up a street, though. There would be inns, up there. The captain had not come on deck to see them ashore, and none of the crew had stayed out in the rain, either. Mat and Thom made their way to the stone dock alone. Mat cursed when his boots sank into the mud of the street, but there was nothing for it, so he kept on, striding along as fast as he could with his boots and the butt of his staff sticking at every step. The air smelled of fish, rank even with the rain. "Well find an inn," he said, loudly, so he could be heard, "and then I will go out looking." "In this weather?" Thom shouted back. Rain was rolling down his face, but he was more interested in keeping his instruments covered than his face. "Comar could have left Caemlyn before us. If he had a good horse instead of the crowbaits we were riding, he could have set out downriver from Aringill maybe a full day ahead of us, and I dont know how much of that we caught up with that idiot Derne." "It was a quick passage," Thom allowed. "Swift deserves its name." "Be that as it may, Thom, rain or no rain, I have to find him before he finds Egwene and Nynaeve, and Elayne." "A few more hours wont make much difference, boy. There are hundreds of inns in a city the size of Tear. There may be hundreds more outside the walls, some of them little places with no more than a dozen rooms to let, so tiny you could walk right by them and never know they were there." The gleeman hitched the hood of his cloak up more, muttering to himself. "It will take weeks to search them all. But it will take Comar the same weeks. We can spend the night in out of the rain. You can wager whatever coin you have left that Comar wont be out in it." Mat shook his head. A tiny inn with a dozen rooms. Before he left Emonds Field, the biggest building he had ever seen was the Winespring Inn. He doubted if Bran alVere had any more than a dozen rooms to let. Egwene had lived with her parents and her sisters in the rooms at the front of the second floor. Burn me, sometimes I think we should never any of us have left Emonds Field. But Rand surely had had to, and Egwene would probably have died if she had not gone to Tar Valon. Now she might die because she did go. He did not think he could settle for the farm again; the cows and the sheep certainly would not play dice. But Perrin still had a chance to go home. Go home, Perrin, he found himself thinking. Go home while you still can. He gave himself a shake. Fool! Why would he want to? He thought of bed, but pushed it away. Not yet. Lightning streaked across the sky, three jagged bolts together, casting a stark light over a narrow house that seemed to have bunches of herbs hanging in the windows, and a shop, shut up tight, but a potters from the sign with its bowls and plates. Yawning, he hunched his shoulders against the driving rain and tried to pull his boots out of the clinging mud more quickly. "I think I can forget about this part of the city, Thom," he shouted. "All this mud, and that stink of fish. Can you see Nynaeve or Egwene - or Elayne! - choosing to stay here? Women like things neat and tidy, Thom, and smelling good ." "May be, boy," Thom muttered, then coughed. "You would be surprised what women will put up with. But it may be." Holding his cloak to keep the roll of fireworks covered, Mat lengthened his stride. "Come on, Thom. I want to find Comar or the girls tonight, one or the other." Thom limped after him, coughing now and again. They strode through the wide gates in the city - unguarded, in the rain - and Mat was relieved to feel paving stones under his feet again. And not more than fifty paces up the street was an inn, the windows of the common room spilling light onto the street, music drifting out into the night. Even Thom covered that last fifty paces through the rain quickly, limp or no limp. The White Crescent had a landlord whose girth made his long blue coat fit snugly below the waist as well as above, unlike those of most of the men in the lowbacked chairs at the tables. Mat thought the landlords baggy breeches, tied at the ankle above low shoes, had to be big enough for two ordinary men to fit inside, one in each leg. The serving women wore dark, highnecked dresses and short white aprons. There was a fellow playing a hammered dulcimer between the two stone fireplaces. Thom eyed the fellow critically and shook his head. nnkeeper, Cavan Lopar by name, was more than glad to give them rooms. He frowned at their muddy boots, but silver from Mats pocket - the gold was running low - and Thoms patchcovered cloak smoothed his fat forehead. When Thom said he would perform for a small fee some nights, Lopars chins waggled with pleasure. Of a big man with a white streak in his beard, he knew nothing, nor of three women meeting the descriptions Mat gave. Mat left everything but his cloak and his quarterstaff in his room, barely looking to see that it had a bed - sleep was enticing, but he refused to let himself think of it - then wolfed down a spicy fish stew and rushed back out into the rain. He was surprise "I thought you wanted to be in where its dry, Thom." The gleeman patted the flute case he still had under his cloak. The rest of his things were up in his room. "People talk to a gleeman, boy. I may learn something you would not. Id not like to see those girls harmed any more than you." There was another inn a hundred paces down the rainfilled street on the other side, and another two hundred beyond that, and then more. Mat took them as he came to them, ducking in long enough for Thom to flourish his cloak and tell a story, then let someone buy him a cup of wine afterwards while Mat asked around after a tall man with a white streak in his closecut black beard and three women. He won a few coins at dice, but he learned nothing, and neither did Thom. He was just glad the gleeman seemed to be taking only a few sips of wine at each inn; Thom had been close to abstemious on the boat, but Mat had not been certain he would not dive back into the wine once they reached Tear. By the time they had visited two dozen common rooms, Mat felt as if his eyelids had weights. The rain had lessened a bit, but it still fell steadily in big drops, and as the rain fell off the wind had freshened. The sky had the dark gray look of coming dawn. "Boy," Thom muttered, "if we dont go back to The White Crescent, I am going to go to sleep here in the rain." He stopped to cough. "Do you realize youve marched right past three inns? Light, I am so tired I cant think. Do you have a scheme of where to go that you have not told me?" Mat stared blearily up the street at a tall man in a cloak hurrying around a corner. Light, I am tired. Rand is five hundred leagues from here, playing at being the bloody Dragon. "What? Three inns?" They were standing almost in front of another, The Golden Cup according to the sign creaking in the wind. It looked nothing like a dice cup, but he decided to give it a try anyway. "One more, Thom. If we dont find them here, well go back and go to bed." Bed sounded better than a dice game with a hundred gold marks riding on the toss, but he made himself go in. Two steps into the common room Mat saw him. The big man wore a green coat with blue stripes down puffy sleeves, but it was Comar, closecut black beard with a white streak over his chin and all. He sat in one of the strangely lowbacked chairs, at a table on the far side of the room, rattling a leather dice cup and smiling at the man across from him. That fellow wore a long coat and baggy breeches, and he was not smiling. He stared at the coins on the table as if wishing he had them back in his purse. Another dice cup sat at Comars elbow. Comar upended the leather cup in his hand, and began laughing almost before the dice stopped spinning. "Who is next?" he called loudly, pulling the wager to his side of the table. There was already a considerable pile of silver in front of him. He scooped the dice into the cup and rattled them. "Surely someone else wants to try his luck?" It seemed that no one did, but he kept rattling the cup and laughing. The innkeeper was easy to pick out, though they did not seem to wear aprons in Tear. His coat was the same shade of deep blue as that of every other innkeeper Mat had spoken to. A plump man, though little more than half the size of Lopar and with half that fellows number of chins, he was sitting at a table by himself, polishing a pewter mug furiously and glaring across the room toward Comar, though not when Comar was looking. Some of the other men gave the bearded man sidelong frowns, too. But not when he was looking. Mat suppressed his first urge, which was to rush over to Comar, drub him over the head with his quarterstaff, and demand to know where Egwene and the others were. Something was wrong here. Comar was the first man he had seen wearing a sword, but the way the men looked at him was more than fear of a swordsman. Even the serving woman who brought Comar a fresh cup of wine - and was pinched for her trouble - had a nervous laugh for him. Look at it from every side, Mat thought wearily. Half the trouble I get into is from not doing that. I have to think. Tiredness seemed to have stuffed his head with wool. He motioned to Thom, and they strolled over to the innkeepers table, who eyed them suspiciously when they sat down. "Who is the man with the stripe in his beard?" Mat asked. "Not from the city, are you?" the innkeeper said. "He is a foreigner, too. Ive never seen him before tonight, but I know what he is. Some outlander who has come here and made his fortune in trade. A merchant rich enough to wear a sword. That is no reason for him to treat us like this." "If you have never seen him before," Mat said, "how do you know he is a merchant?" The innkeeper looked at him as if he were stupid. "His coat, man, and his sword. He cannot be a lord or a soldier if hes from off, so he has to be a rich merchant." He shook his head for the stupidity of foreigners. "They come to our places, to look down their noses at us, and fondle the girls under our very eyes, but he has no call to do this. If I go to the Maule, I dont gamble for some fishermans coins. If I go to the Tavar, I do not dice with the farmers come to sell their crops." His polishing gained in ferocity. "Such luck, the man has. It must be how he made his fortune." "He wins, does he?" Yawning, Mat wondered how he would do dicing with another man who had luck. "Sometimes he loses," the innkeeper muttered, "when the stake is a few silver pennies. Sometimes. But let it reach a silver mark... No less than a dozen times tonight, I have seen him win at Crowns with three crowns and two roses. And half again as often, at Top, it has been three sixes and two fives. He tosses nothing but sixes at Threes, and three sixes and a five every throw at Compass. If he has such luck, I say the Light shine on him, and well to him, but let him use it with other merchants, as is proper. How can a man have such luck?" "Weighted dice," Thom said, then coughed. "When he wants to be sure of winning, he uses dice that always show the same face. He is smart enough not to have made it the highest toss - folk become suspicious if you always throw the king" - he raised an eyebrow at Mat - "just one thats all but impossible to beat, but he cannot change that they always show the same face." "I have heard of such," the innkeeper said slowly. "Illianers use them, I hear." Then he shook his head. "But both men use the same cup and dice. It cannot be." "Bring me two dice cups," Thom said, "and two sets of dice. Crowns or spots, it makes no difference, so long as The innkeeper frowned at him, but left - prudently taking the pewter cup with him - and came back with two leather cups. Thom rolled the five bone cubes from one onto the table in front of Mat. Whether with spots or symbols, every set of dice Mat had ever seen had been either bone or wood. These had spots. He picked them up, frowning at Thom. "Am I supposed to see something?" Thom dumped the dice from the other cup into his hand, then, almost too quickly to follow, dropped them back in and twisted the cup over to rest upside down on the table before the dice could fall out. He kept his hand on top of the cup. "Put a mark on each of them, boy. Something small, but something youll know for your mark." Mat found himself exchanging puzzled glances with the innkeeper. Then they both looked at the cup upside down under Thoms hand. He knew Thom was up to something tricky - gleemen were always doing things that were impossible, like eating fire and pulling silk out of the air - but he did not see how Thom could do anything with him watching close. He unsheathed his belt knife and made a small scratch on each die, right across the circle of six spots. "All right," he said, setting them back on the table. "Show me your trick." Thom reached over and picked up the dice, then set them down again a foot away. "Look for your marks, boy." Mat frowned. Thoms hand was still on the upended leather cup; the gleeman had not moved it or taken Mats dice anywhere near it. He picked up the dice... and blinked. There was not a scratch on them. The innkeeper gasped. Thom turned his free hand over, revealing five dice. "Your marks are on these. That is what Comar is doing. It is a childs trick, simple, though Id never have thought he had the fingers for it." "I do not think I want to play dice with you after all," Mat said slowly. The innkeeper was staring at the dice, but not as if he saw any solution. "Call the Watch, or whatever you call it here," Mat told him. "Have him arrested." Hell kill nobody in a prison cell. Yet what if they are already dead? He tried not to listen, but the thought persisted. Then Ill see him dead, and Gaebril, whatever it takes! But they arent, burn me! They cant be! The innkeeper was shaking his head. "Me? Me, denounce a merchant to the Defenders? They would not even look at his dice. He could say one word, and I would be in chains working the channeldredges in the Fingers of the Dragon. He could cut me down where I stood, and the Defenders would say I had earned it. Perhaps he will go away after a while." Mat gave him a wry grimace. "If I expose him, will that be good enough? Will you call the Watch, or the Defenders or whoever, then?" "You do not understand. You are a foreigner. Even if he is from off, he is a wealthy man, important." "Wait here," Mat told Thom. "I do not mean to let him reach Egwene and the others, whatever it takes." He yawned as he scraped back his chair. "Wait, boy," Thom called after him, soft yet urgent. The gleeman pushed himself up out of his chair. "Burn you, you dont know what youre putting your foot into!" Mat waved for him to stay there and walked over to Comar. No one else had taken up the bearded mans challenge, and he eyed Mat with interest as Mat leaned his quarterstaff against the table and sat down. Comar studied Mats coat and grinned nastily. "You want to wager coppers, farmer? I do not waste my time with -" He cut off as Mat set an Andoran gold crown on the table and yawned at him, making no effort to cover his mouth. "You say little, farmer, though your manners could use improving, but gold has a voice of its own and no need of manners." He shook the leather cup in his hand and spilled the dice out. He was chuckling before they came to rest, showing three crowns and two roses. "Youll not beat that, farmer. Perhaps you have more gold hidden in those rags that you want to lose? What did you do? Rob your master?" He reached for the dice, but Mat scooped them up ahead of him. Comar glared, but let him have the cup. If both tosses were the same, they would throw again until one man won. Mat smiled as he rattled the dice. He did not mean to give Comar a chance to change them. If they threw the same toss three or four times in a row - exactly the same, every time - even these Defenders would listen. The whole common room would see; they would have to back his word. He spilled the dice onto the tabletop. They bounced oddly. He felt something - shifting. It was as if his luck had gone wild. The room seemed to be writhing around him, tugging at the dice with threads. For some reason he wanted to look at the door, but he kept his eyes on the dice. They came to rest. Five crowns. Comars eyes looked ready to pop out of his head. "You lose," Mat said softly. If his luck was in to this extent, perhaps it was time to push it. A voice in the back of his head told him to think, but he was too tired to listen. "I think your luck is about used up, Comar. If youve harmed those girls, its all gone." "I have not even found..." Comar began, still staring at the dice, then jerked his head up. His face had gone white. "How do you know my name?" He had not found them, yet. Luck, sweet luck, stay with me. "Go back to Caemlyn, Comar. Tell Gaebril you could not find them. Tell him they are dead. Tell him anything, but leave Tear tonight. If I see you again, Ill kill you." "Who are you?" the big man said unsteadily. "Who -?" The next instant his sword was out and he was on his feet. Mat shoved the table at him, overturning it, and grabbed for his quarterstaff. He had forgotten how big Comar was. The bearded man pushed the table right back at him. Mat fell over with his chair, holding a bare grasp on his staff, as Comar heaved the table out of the way and stabbed at him. Mat threw his feet against the mans middle to stop his rush, swung the staff awkwardly, just enough to deflect the sword. But the blow knocked the staff from his fingers, and he found himself gripping Comars wrist, instead, with the mans blade a hand from his face. With a grunt he rolled backwards, heaving as hard as he could with his legs. Comars eyes widened as he sailed over Mat to crash onto a table, face up. Mat scrambled for his staff, but when he had it, Comar had not moved. The big man lay with his hips and legs sprawled across the top of the table, the rest of him hanging down with his head on the floor. The men who had been sitting at the table were on their feet a safe distance away, wringing their hands and eyeing each other nervously. A low, worried buzz filled the common room, n Comars sword lay within easy reach of his hand. But he did not move. He stared at Mat, though, as Mat kicked the sword away and went to one knee beside him. Light! I think his back is broken! "I told you you should have gone, Comar. Your luck is all used up." "Fool," the big man breathed. "Do you... think I... was the only... one hunting them? They wont... live till..." His eyes stared at Mat, and his mouth was open, but he said no more. Nor ever would again. Mat met the glazing stare, trying to will more words out of the dead man. Who else, burn you? Who? Where are they? My luck. Burn me, what happened to my luck? He became aware of the innkeeper pulling frantically at his arm. "You must go. You must. Before the Defenders come. I will show them the dice. I will tell them it was an outlander, but a tall man. With redcolored hair, and gray eyes. No one will suffer. A man I dreamed of last night. No one real. No one will contradict me. He took coin from everyone with his dice. But you must go. You must!" Everyone else in the room was studiously looking another way. Mat let himself be hauled away from the dead man and pushed outside. Thom was already waiting in the rain. He seized Mats arm and limped down the street hurriedly, pulling Mat stumbling behind him. Mats hood hung down his back; the rain soaked his hair and poured down his face, down his neck, but he did not notice. The gleeman kept looking over his shoulder, searching the street beyond Mat. "Are you asleep, boy? You did not look asleep back there. Come on, boy. The Defenders will arrest any outlander within two streets, no matter what description that innkeeper gives." "Its the luck," Mat mumbled. "Ive figured it out. The dice. My luck works best when things are... random. Like dice. Not much good for cards. No good at stones. Too much pattern. It has to be random. Even finding Comar. Id stopped visiting every inn. I walked into that one by chance. Thom, if I am going to find Egwene and the others in time, I have to look without any pattern." "What are you talking about? The man is dead. If he already killed them... Well, youve avenged them. If he hasnt, you saved them. Now will you bloody walk faster? The Defenders wont be long coming, and they are not so gentle as the Queens Guards." Mat shook his arm free and picked up his pace unsteadily, dragging the quarterstaff. "He let it slip that he hadnt located them, yet. But he said he was not the only one. Thom, I believe him. I was looking him in the eye, and he was telling the truth. I still have to find them, Thom. And now I dont even know who is after them. I have to find them." Stifling a huge yawn with his fist, Thom pulled Mats hood up against the rain. "Not tonight, boy. I need sleep, and so do you." Wet. My hairs dripping in my face. His head seemed fuzzy. With a need for sleep, he realized after a moment. And he realized how tired he was, if he had to think just to know it. "All right, Thom. But I am going to look again as soon as its light." Thom nodded and coughed, and they made their way back to The White Crescent through the rain. Dawn was not long in coming, but Mat rousted himself out of bed, and he and Thom set off trying to search every inn inside the walls of Tear. Mat let himself wander wherever the mood and the next turning took him, not looking for inns at all, and tossing a coin to decide whether to go in. For three days and nights he did this, and for three days and nights it rained without stopping, sometimes thundering, sometimes quiet, but always pouring down. Thoms cough grew worse, so he had to stop playing the flute and telling stories, and he would not carry his harp out in that weather; he insisted on going along, however, and men still talked to a gleeman. Mats luck with the dice seemed even better since he had begun this random wander, though he never stayed in one inn or tavern long enough to win more than a few coins. Neither of them heard anything useful. Rumors of war with Illian. Rumors of invading Mayene. Rumors of invasion from Andor, of the Sea Folk shutting off trade, of Artur Hawkwings armies returning from the dead. Rumors the Dragon was coming. The men Mat gambled with were as gloomy about one rumor as the next; they seemed to him to hunt for the darkest rumors they could find and half believe them all. But he heard not a whisper that might lead him to Egwene and the others. Not one innkeeper had seen women matching their descriptions. He began to have bad dreams, no doubt from all his worrying. Egwene and Nynaeve and Elayne, and some fellow with closecropped white hair, wearing a coat with puffy, striped sleeves like Comars, laughing and weaving a net around them. Only sometimes it was Moiraine he was weaving the net for, and sometimes he held a crystal sword instead, a sword that blazed like the sun as soon as he touched it. Sometimes it was Rand who held the sword. For some reason, he dreamed of Rand a good deal. Mat was sure it was all because he was not getting enough sleep, not eating except when he happened to remember, but he would not stop. He had a wager to win, he told himself, and he meant to win this one if it killed him. PROLOGUE 1 2 3 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 20 21 22 23 24 25 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 House, so it was me that the Guild held responsible 42 43 44 46 47 48 50 51 52 53 54 55 56Back to Table of contentTOP AUTHORSTerry PratchettDarren ShanSamantha YoungGav ThorpePamela PalmerGene WolfeF. Paul WilsonAmanda MaxlynJodi Ellen MalpasJill ShalvisSusan HillSherrilyn KenyonMegan ShepherdColleen GleasonKylie ScottCourtney SummersElizabeth KostovaYanna LeeTobias S. BuckellJennifer EstepGeorgia CatesEmma ChaseJ.C. ReedC.J. EllissonBrent WeeksKendare BlakeSam SykesMeg CabotNicole Peeler Philip AthansLauren KateS.D. PerryMax BrooksFritz LeiberMaryJanice DavidsonJames S.A. CoreyR.K. LilleyMolly McAdamsRobert McCammonKatja Millay < Copyright © novelfull thefreeonlinenovel.com All Rights Reserved.