 Toggle navigationHomeLatest UpdateAdventureChristianFantasyHistoricalHorrorHumorousMysteryRomanceScience FictionThrillerWesternYoung AdultTop BooksPreySphereBlack RoseThe Great Train RobberyBlue DahliaCarnal InnocenceDance Upon the AirHigh NoonLawlessSacred SinsTributeFace the FireHolding the DreamA Man for AmandaAll the PossibilitiesNextThe Dragon Reborn 24 () 24 (Dice) Scouting and Discoveries Sunlight through the carved shutters, creeping across the bed, woke Mat. For a moment, he only lay there, frowning. He had not reasoned out any plan for escaping from Tar Valon before sleep had overtaken him, but neither had he given up. Too much memory still lay covered with fog, but he would not give up. Two serving women came bustling with hot water and a tray heavy with food, laughing and telling him how much better he looked already, and how soon he would be back on his feet if he did what the Aes Sedai told him. He answered them curtly, trying not to sound bitter. Let them think I mean to go along. His stomach rumbled at the smells from the tray. When they left, he tossed aside his blanket and hopped out of bed, pausing only to stuff half a slice of ham into his mouth before pouring out water to wash and shave. Staring into the mirror above the washstand, he paused in lathering his face. He did look better. His cheeks were still hollow, but not quite as hollow as they had been. The dark circles had vanished from under his eyes, which no longer seemed set so deep in his head. It was as if every bite he had eaten the night before had gone into putting meat on his bones. He even felt stronger. "At this rate," he muttered, "I will be gone before they know it." But he was still surprised when, after shaving, he sat down and consumed every scrap of ham, turnip, and pear on the tray. He was sure they expected him to climb back into bed once he had eaten, but instead, he dressed. Stamping his feet to settle them in his boots, he eyed his spare clothes and decided to leave them, for now. I have to know what Im doing, first. And if I have to leave them... He tucked the dice cups into his pouch. With those, he could get all the clothes he needed. Opening the door, he peeked out. More doors paneled in pale, golden wood lined the hall, with colorful tapestries between, and a runner of blue carpet ran down the whitetiled floor. But there was no one out there. No guard. He tossed his cloak over one shoulder and hurried out. Now to find a way outside. It took some little wandering, down stairs and along corridors and across open courts, before he found what he wanted, a doorway to the outside, and he saw people before then: serving women and whiteclad novices hurrying about their chores, the novices running even harder than the servants; a handful of roughly dressed male servants carrying large chests and other heavy loads; Accepted in their banded dresses. Even a few Aes Sedai. The Aes Sedai did not seem to notice him as they strode along, intent on whatever purpose, or else they gave him no more than a passing glance. His were country clothes, but well made; he did not look a vagabond, and the serving men showed that men were allowed in this part of the Tower. He suspected they might take him for another servant, and that was just as well with him, so long as no one asked him to lift anything. He did feel some regret that none of the women he saw was Egwene or Nynaeve, or even Elayne. Shes a pretty one, even if she does have her nose in the air half the time. And she could tell me how to find Egwene and the Wisdom. I cannot go without saying goodbye. Light, I dont suppose one of them would turn me in, just because they are becoming Aes Sedai themselves? Burn me, for a fool! Theyd never do that. Anyway, I will risk it. But once outofdoors, under a bright morning sky with only a few drifting white clouds, he put the women from his mind for the time. He was looking across a wide, flagstoned yard with a plain stone fountain in the middle and a barracks on the other side that was made of gray stone. It looked almost like a huge boulder among the few trees growing out of rimmed holes in the flagstones close by. Guardsmen in their shirtsleeves sat in front of the long, low building, tending weapons and armor and harness. Guardsmen were what he wanted, now. He sauntered across the yard and watched the soldiers as if he had nothing better to do. As they worked they talked and laughed among themselves like men after the harvest. Now and again one of them looked curiously at Mat as he strolled among them, but none challenged his right to be there. From time to time he asked a casual question. And finally he got the answer he sought. "Bridge guard?" said a stocky, darkhaired man no more than five years older than Mat. His words had a heavy Illianer accent. Young he might have been, but a thin white scar crossed his left cheek, and the hands oiling his sword moved with familiarity and competence. He squinted up at Mat before returning to his task. "I do be on the bridge guard, and back there again this ev "I was just wondering what conditions were like on the other side of the river." I might as well find that out, too. "Good for traveling? It cant be muddy, unless you have had more rain than I know about." "Which side of the river?" the guardsman asked placidly. His eyes did not lift from the oiled rag he was running along his blade. "Uh... east. The east side." "No mud. Whitecloaks." The man leaned to one side to spit, but his voice did not change. "Whitecloaks do be poking their noses into every village for ten miles. They have no hurt anyone yet, but them just being there do upset the folk. Fortune prick me if I do no think they wish to provoke us, for they do look as if they would attack if they could. No good for anyone who do want to travel." "What about west, then?" "The same." The guardsman raised his eyes to Mats. "But you will no be crossing, lad, east or west. Your name do be Matrim Cauthon, or Fortune abandon me. Last night a sister, herself in person, did come to the bridge where I did stand guard. She did drill your features at us till each could speak them back to her. A guest, she did say, and no to be harmed. But no to be allowed out of the city, either, if you must be tied hand and foot to keep you from it." His eyes narrowed. "Is it that you did steal something from them?" he asked doubtfully. "You do no have the look of those the sisters do guest." "I didnt steal anything!" Mat said indignantly. Burn me, I didnt even get a chance to work around to it easy. They must all know me. "Im no thief!" "No, it is no that I do see in your face. No thievery. But you do have the look of the fellow who did try to sell me the Horn of Valere three days gone. So he did claim it did be, all bent and battered as it did be. Do you have a Horn of Valere to sell? Or mayhap it do be the Dragons sword?" Mat gave a jump at the mention of the Horn, but he, managed to keep his voice level. "I was sick." Others of the guardsmen were looking at him now. Light, theyll all know I am not supposed to leave, now. He forced a laugh. "The sisters Healed me." Some of the guardsmen frowned at him. Perhaps they thought other men should show more respect than to call the Aes Sedai sisters. "I guess the Aes Sedai dont want me to go before I have all my strength back." He tried willing the men, all of those watching him now, to accept that. Just a man who was Healed. Nothing more. No reason to trouble yourself about him any further. The Illianer nodded. "You do have the look of sickness in your face, too. Perhaps that do be the reason. But never did I hear of so much effort to keep one sick man in the city." "Thats the reason," Mat said firmly. They were all still looking at him. "Well, I need to be going. They said I have to take walks. Lots of long walks. To build up strength, you know." He felt their eyes following him as he left, and he scowled. He had simply meant to find out how well his description had been passed around. If only the officers among the bridge guards had had it, he might have been able to slip by. He had always been good at slipping into places unseen. And out. It was a talent you developed when your mother always suspected you were up to some mischief and you had four sisters to tell on you. And now Ive made sure half a barracks full of guardsmen will know me. Blood and bloody ashes! Much of the Tower grounds were gardens full of trees, leatherleaf and paperbark and elms, and he soon found himself walking along a wide, twisting graveled path. It could have led through countryside, if not for the towers visible over the treetops. And the white bulk of the Tower itself, behind him but pressing on him as if he carried it on his shoulders. If there were ways out of the Tower grounds that were not watched, this seemed the place to find them. If they existed. A girl in novice white appeared ahead on the path, striding purposefully toward him. Wrapped in her own thoughts, she did not see him at first. When she came close enough for him to make out her big, dark eyes and the way her hair was braided, he grinned suddenly. He knew this girl - memory drifting up from shrouded depths - though he would never have expected to find her here. He had never expected to see her again at all. He grinned to himself. Good luck to balance bad. As he remembered, she had quite an eye for the boys. "Else," he called to her. "Else Grinwell. You remember me, dont you? Mat Cauthon. A friend and I visited your fathers farm. Remember? Have you decided to become Aes Sedai, then?" She stopped short, staring at him. "What are you doing up and out?" she said coldly. "You know about that, do you?" He moved closer to her, but she stepped back, keeping her distance. He stopped. "Its not catching. I was Healed, Else." Those large, dark eyes seemed more knowing than he remembered, and not nearly so warm, but he supposed studying to be an Aes Sedai could do that. "What is the matter, Else? You look like you dont know me." "I know you," she said. Her manner was not as he remembered, either; he thought she could give Elayne lessons now. "I have... work to be about. Let me by." He grimaced. The path was broad enough for six to walk abreast without crowding. "I told you it isnt catching." "Let me by!" Muttering to himself, he stepped to one edge of the gravel. She went past him along the other side, watching to make sure he did not come closer. Once by, she quickened her steps, glancing over her shoulder at him until she was out of sight around a bend. Wanted to make sure I didnt follow her, he thought sourly. First the guardsmen, and now Else. My luck is not in, today. He started off again, and soon heard a ferocious clatter from one side ahead, like dozens of sticks being beat together. Curious, he turned off toward it, into the trees. brought him to a large expanse of bare ground, the earth beaten hard, at least fifty paces across and nearly twice as long. At intervals around it under the trees stood wooden stands holding quarterstaffs, and practice swords made of strips of wood bound loosely together, and a few real swords and axes and spears. Spaced across the open ground, pairs of men, most stripped to the waist, flailed at each other with more practice swords. Some moved so smoothly it almost seemed they danced with one another, flowing from stance to stance, stroke to counterstroke in continuous motion. There was nothing quickly apparent aside from skill to mark them from the others, but Mat was sur Those who did not move so smoothly were all younger, each pair under the watchful eyes of an older man who seemed to radiate a dangerous grace even standing still. Warders and students, Mat decided. He was not the only audience. Not ten paces from him, half a dozen women with ageless Aes Sedai faces and as many more in the banded white dresses of the Accepted stood watching one pair of students, bare to the waist and slick with sweat, under the guidance of a Warder shaped much like a block of stone. The Warder used a shortstemmed pipe in one hand, trailing tabac smoke, to direct his pupils. Sitting down crosslegged under a leatherleaf, Mat rooted three large pebbles out of the ground and began to juggle them idly. He did not feel weak, exactly, but it was good to sit. If there was a way out of the Tower grounds, it would not go away while he took a short rest. Before he had been there five minutes he knew who it was the Aes Sedai and Accepted were watching. One of the blocky Warders pupils was a tall, lithe young man who moved like a cat. And almost as pretty as a girl, Mat thought wryly. Every woman was staring at the tall fellow with sparkling eyes, even the Aes Sedai. The tall man handled his practice sword almost as deftly as the Warders, now and then earning an approving gravelly comment from his teacher. It was not that his opponent, a youth more Mats age, with redgold hair, was unskilled. Far from it, as much as Mat could see, though he had never claimed to know anything about swords. The goldenhaired man met every lightning attack, turning it away before the bound strips could strike him, and even launched an occasional attack of his own. But the handsome fellow countered those attacks and flowed back into his own in the space of a heartbeat. Mat shifted the pebbles to one hand, but kept them spinning in the air. He did not think he would care to face either of them. Certainly not with a sword. "Break!" The Warders voice sounded like rocks emptying out of a bucket. Chests heaving, the two men let their practice swords fall to their sides. Sweat matted their hair. "You can rest till I finish my pipe. But rest fast; I am almost in the dottle." Now that they had stopped dancing about, Mat got a good look at the youth with the redgold hair and let the pebbles drop. Burn me, Ill bet my whole purse thats Elaynes brother. And the other ones Galad, or Ill eat my boots. On the journey from Toman Head it had seemed half of Elaynes conversation had been of Gawyns virtues and Galads vices. Oh, Gawyn had some vices according to Elayne, but they were small; to Mat they sounded like the sort of things no one but a sister would consider vices at all. As for Galad, once Elayne was pinned down, he sounded like what every mother said she wanted her son to be. Mat did not think he wanted to spend much time in Galads company . Egwene blushed whenever Galad was mentioned, though she seemed to think no one noticed. A ripple seemed to pass through the watching women when Gawyn and Galad stopped, and they appeared on the point of stepping forward almost as one. But Gawyn caught sight of Mat, said something quietly to Galad, and the two of them walked by the women. The Aes Sedai and Accepted turned to follow with their eyes. Mat scrambled to his feet as the pair approached. "You are Mat Cauthon, are you not?" Gawyn said with a grin. "I was sure I recognized you from Egwenes description. And Elaynes. I understand you were sick. Are you better now?" "Im fine," Mat said. He wondered if he was supposed to call Gawyn "my Lord" or something of the sort. He had refused to call Elayne "my Lady" - not that she had demanded it, actually - and he decided he would not do her brother better. "Did you come to the practice yard to learn the sword?" Galad asked. Mat shook his head. "I was only out walking. I dont know much about swords. I think Ill put my trust in a good bow, or a good quarterstaff. I know how to use those." "If you spend much time around Nynaeve," Galad said, "youll need bow, quarterstaff, and sword to protect yourself. And I dont know whether that would be enough." Gawyn looked at him wonderingly. "Galad, you just very nearly made a joke." "I do have a sense of humor, Gawyn," Galad said with a frown. "You only think I do not because I do not care to mock people." With a shake of his head, Gawyn turned back to Mat. "You should learn something of the sword. Everyone can do with that sort of knowledge these days. Your friend - Rand alThor - carried a most unusual sword. What do you hear of him?" "I havent seen Rand in a long time," Mat said quickly. Just for a moment, when he had mentioned Rand, Gawyns look had gained intensity. Light, does he know about Rand? He couldnt. If he did, hed be denouncing me for a Darkfriend just for being Rands friend. But he knows something. "Swords arent the beall and endall, you know. I could do fairly well against either of you, I think, if you had a sword and I had my quarterstaff." Gawyns cough was obviously meant to swallow a laugh. Much too politely, he said, "You must be very good." Galads face was frankly disbelieving. Perhaps it was that they both clearly thought he was making a wild boast. Perhaps it was because he had mishandled questioning the guardsman. Perhaps it was because Else, who had such an eye for the boys, wanted nothing to do with him, and all those women were staring at Galad like cats watching a jug of cream. Aes Sedai and Accepted or not, they were still women. All these explanations ran through Mats head, but he rejected them angrily, especially the last. He was going to do it because it would be fun. And it might earn some coin. His luck would not even have to be back. "I will wager," he said, "two silver marks to two from each of you that I can beat both of you at once, just the way I said. You cant have fairer odds than that. There are two of you, and one of me, so two to one are fair odds." He almost laughed aloud at the consternation on their faces. "Mat," Gawyn said, "theres no need to make wagers. You have been sick. Perhaps we will try this some time when you are stronger." "It would be far from a fair wager," Galad said. "Ill not take your wager, now or later. You are from the same village as Egwene, are you not? I... I would not have her angry with me." does she have to do with it? Thump me once with one of your swords, and I will hand over a silver mark to each of you. If I thump you till you quit, you give me two each. Dont you t "This is ridiculous," Galad said. "You would have no chance against one trained swordsman, let alone two. Ill not take such advantage." "Do you think that?" asked a gravel voice. The blocky Warder joined them, thick black eyebrows pulled down in a scowl. "You think you two are good enough with your swords to take a boy with a stick?" "It would not be fair, Hammar Gaidin," Galad said. "He has been sick," Gawyn added. "There is no need for this." "To the yard," Hammar grated with a jerk of his head back over his shoulder. Galad and Gawyn gave Mat regretful looks, then obeyed. The Warder eyed Mat up and down doubtfully. "Are you sure youre up to this, lad? Now I take a close look at you, you ought to be in a sickbed." "I am already out of one," Mat said, "and Im up to it. I have to be. I dont want to lose my two marks." Hammars heavy brows rose in surprise. "You mean to hold to that wager, lad?" "I need the money." Mat laughed. His laughter cut off abruptly as he turned toward the nearest stand that held quarterstaffs and his knees almost buckled. He stiffened them so quickly he thought anyone who noticed would think he had just stumbled. At the stand he took his time choosing out a staff, nearly two inches thick and almost a foot taller than he was. I have to win this. I opened my fool mouth, and now I have to win. I cant afford to lose those two marks. Without those to build on, it will take forever to win the money I need. When he turned back, the quarterstaff in both hands before him, Gawyn and Galad were already waiting out where they had been practicing. I have to win. "Luck," he muttered. "Time to toss the dice." Hammar gave him an odd look. "You speak the Old Tongue, lad?" Mat stared back at him for a moment, not speaking. He felt cold to the bone. With an effort, he made his feet start out onto the practice yard. "Remember the wager," he said loudly. "Two silver marks from each of you against two from me." A buzz rose from the Accepted as they realized what was happening. The Aes Sedai watched in silence. Disapproving silence. Gawyn and Galad split apart, one to either side of him, keeping their distance, neither with his sword more than halfraised. "No wager," Gawyn said. "Theres no wager." At the same time, Galad said, "Ill not take your money like this." "I mean to take yours," Mat said. "Done!" Hammar roared. "If they have not the nerve to cover your wager, lad, Ill pay the score myself." "Very well," Gawyn said. "If you insist on it - done!" Galad hesitated a moment more before growling, "Done, then. Let us put an end to this farce." The moments warning was all Mat needed. As Galad rushed at him, he slid his hands along the quarterstaff and pivoted. The end of the staff thudded into the tall mans ribs, bringing a grunt and a stumble. Mat let the staff bounce off Galad and spun, carrying it on around just as Gawyn came within range. The staff dipped, darted under Gawyns practice sword, and clipped his ankle out from under him. As Gawyn fell, Mat completed the spin in time to catch Galad across his upraised wrist, sending his practice sword flying. As if his wrist did not pain him at all, Galad threw himself into a smooth, rolling dive and came up with his sword in both hands. Ignoring him for the moment, Mat half turned, twisting his wrists to whip the length of the staff back beside him. Gawyn, just starting to rise, took the blow on the side of his head with a loud thump only partly softened by the padding of hair. He went down in a heap. Mat was only vaguely aware of an Aes Sedai rushing out to tend Elaynes fallen brother. I hope hes all right. He should be. Ive hit myself harder than that falling off a fence. He still had Galad to deal with, and from the way Galad was poised on the balls of his feet, sword raised precisely, he had begun to take Mat seriously. gs chose that moment to tremble. Light, I cant weaken now. But he could feel it creeping back in, the wobbly feeling, the hunger as if he had not eaten for days. If I wait for him to come to me, Ill fall on my face. It was hard to keep his knees straight as he started forward. Luck, stay with me. From the first blow, he knew that luck, or skill, or whatever had brought him this far, was still there. Galad managed to turn that one with a sharp clack, and the next, and the next, and the next, but strain stiffened his face. That smooth swordsman, almost as good as the Warders, fought with every ounce of his skill to keep Mats staff from him. He did not attack; it was all he could do to defend. He moved continually to the side, trying not to be forced back, and Mat pressed him, staff a blur. And Galad stepped back, stepped back again, wooden blade a thin shield against the quarterstaff. Hunger gnawed at Mat as if he had swallowed weasels. Sweat rolled down into his eyes, and his strength began to fade as if it leached out with the sweat. Not yet. I cant fall yet. I have to win. Now. With a roar, he threw all his reserves into one last surge. The quarterstaff flickered past Galads sword and in quick succession struck knee, wrist, and ribs and finally thrust into Galads stomach like a spear. With a groan, Galad folded over, fighting not to fall. The staff quivered in Mats hands, on the point of a final crushing thrust to the throat. Galad sank to the ground. Mat almost dropped the quarterstaff when he realized what he had been about to do. Win, not kill. Light, what was I thinking? Reflexively he grounded the butt of the staff, and as soon he did, he had to clutch at it to hold himself erect. Hunger hollowed him like a knife reaming marrow from a bone. Suddenly he realized that not only the Aes Sedai and Accepted were watching. All practice, all learning, had stopped. Warders and students alike stood watching him. Hammar moved to stand beside Galad, still groaning on the ground and trying to push himself up. The Warder raised his voice to shout, "Who was the greatest blademaster of all time?" From the throats of dozens of students came a massed bellow. "Jearom, Gaidin!" "Yes!" Hammar shouted, turning to make sure all heard. "During his lifetime, Jearom fought over ten thousand times, in battle and single combat. He was defeated once. By a farmer with a quarterstaff. Remember that. Remember what you just saw." He lowered his eyes to Galad, and lowered his voice as well. "If you cannot get up by now, lad, it is finished." He raised a hand, and the Aes Sedai and Accepted Mat slid down the staff to his knees. None of the Aes Sedai even glanced his way. One of the Accepted did, a plump girl he might have liked to ask for a dance if she were not going to be an Aes Sedai. She frowned at him, sniffed, and turned back to peering at what the Aes Sedai were doing around Galad. Gawyn was on his feet, Mat noted with relief. He pulled himself up as Gawyn came over. Mustnt let them know. Ill never get out of here if they decide to nurse me from sunup to sunup. Blood darkened the redgold hair on the side of Gawyns head, but there was neither cut nor bruise apparent. He pushed two silver marks into Mats hand with a dry, "I think I will listen next time." He noticed Mats glance, touched his head. "They Healed it, but it was not bad. Elayne has given me worse more than once. You are good with that." "Not as good as my da. Hes won the quarterstaff at Bel Tine every year as long as I can remember, except once or twice when Rands da did." That interested look came back into Gawyns eyes, and Mat wished he had never mentioned Tam alThor. The Aes Sedai and the Accepted were all still clustered around Galad. "I... I must have hurt him badly. I did not mean to do that." Gawyn glanced that way - there was nothing to be seen but two rings of womens backs, Accepteds white dresses making the outer ring as they peered over the shoulders of crouching Aes Sedai - and laughed. "You did not kill him - I heard him groaning - so he should be on his feet by now, but they are not going to let this chance pass, now they have their hands on him. Light, four of them are Green Ajah!" Mat gave him a confused look - Green Ajah? What does that have to do with anything? - and Gawyn shook his head. "It doesnt matter. Just rest assured that the worst Galad has to worry about is finding himself Warder to a Green Aes Sedai before his head clears." He laughed. "No, they would not do that. But I will wager you those two marks of mine in your hand that some of them wish they could." "Not your marks," Mat said, shoving them in his coat pocket, "mine." The explanation had made little sense to him. Except that Galad was well. All he knew of what passed between Warders and Aes Sedai were the pieces he remembered of Lan and Moiraine, and there was nothing there like what Gawyn seemed to be suggesting. "Do you think theyd mind if I collected my wager from him?" "They very likely would," Hammar said dryly as he joined them. "You are not very popular with those particular Aes Sedai right now." He snorted. "Youd think even Green Aes Sedai would be better than girls just loose from their mothers apron strings. He isnt that goodlooking." "He is not," Mat agreed. Gawyn grinned at both of them, until Hammar glared at him. "Here," the Warder said, pushing two more silver coins into Mats hand. "I will collect from Galad later. Where are you from, lad?" "Manetheren." Mat froze when he heard the name come out of his mouth. "I mean, Im from the Two Rivers. I have heard too many old stories." They just looked at him without saying anything. "I... I think I will go back and see if I can find something to eat." Not even the Midmorning bell had rung yet, but they nodded as if it made sense. He kept the quarterstaff - no one had told him to put it back - and walked slowly until the trees hid him from the practice yard. When they did, he leaned on the staff as though it were the only thing holding him up. He was not sure it was not. He thought that if he parted his coat, he would see a hole where his stomach should have been, a hole growing larger as it pulled the rest of him in. But he hardly thought of hunger. He kept hearing voices in his head. You speak the Old Tongue, lad? Manetheren. It made him shiver. Light help me, I keep digging myself deeper. I have to get out of here. But how? He hobbled back toward the Tower proper like an old, old man. How? PROLOGUE 1 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 20 21 22 23 25 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 House, so it was me that the Guild held responsible 42 43 44 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56Back to Table of contentTOP AUTHORSTerry PratchettDarren ShanSamantha YoungGav ThorpePamela PalmerGene WolfeF. Paul WilsonAmanda MaxlynJodi Ellen MalpasJill ShalvisSusan HillSherrilyn KenyonMegan ShepherdColleen GleasonKylie ScottCourtney SummersElizabeth KostovaYanna LeeTobias S. BuckellJennifer EstepGeorgia CatesEmma ChaseJ.C. ReedC.J. EllissonBrent WeeksKendare BlakeSam SykesMeg CabotNicole Peeler Philip AthansLauren KateS.D. PerryMax BrooksFritz LeiberMaryJanice DavidsonJames S.A. CoreyR.K. LilleyMolly McAdamsRobert McCammonKatja Millay < Copyright © novelfull thefreeonlinenovel.com All Rights Reserved.