 Toggle navigationHomeLatest UpdateAdventureChristianFantasyHistoricalHorrorHumorousMysteryRomanceScience FictionThrillerWesternYoung AdultTop BooksPreySphereBlack RoseThe Great Train RobberyBlue DahliaCarnal InnocenceDance Upon the AirHigh NoonLawlessSacred SinsTributeFace the FireHolding the DreamA Man for AmandaAll the PossibilitiesNextThe Dragon Reborn 15 () 15 (Female Silhouettes) The Gray Man Outside the Amyrlin Seats study, Egwene and Nynaeve found the corridors empty except for an occasional serving woman, hurrying about her duties on softslippered feet. Egwene was grateful for their presence. The halls suddenly seemed like caverns, for all the tapestries and stonework. Dangerous caverns. Nynaeve strode along purposefully, tugging at her braid fitfully again, and Egwene hurried to keep up. She did not want to be left alone. "If the Black Ajah is still here, Nynaeve, and if they even suspect what were doing... I hope you didnt mean what you said about acting as if we are already bound by the Three Oaths. I dont intend to let them kill me, not if I can stop it by channeling." y of them are still here, Egwene, they will know what we are doing as soon as they see us." Despite what she was saying, Nynaeve sounded preoccupied. "Or at least they will see us as a threat, and thats much the same thing as far as what they will do." "How will they see us as a threat? Nobody is threatened by someone they can order about. Nobody is threatened by someone who has to scrub pots and turn the spits three times a day. Thats why the Amyrlin is putting us to work in the kitchens. Part of the reason, anyway." "Perhaps the Amyrlin did not think it through," Nynaeve said absently. "Or perhaps she did, and means something different for us than what she claims. Think, Egwene. Liandrin would not have tried to put us out of the way unless she thought we were a threat to her. I cant imagine how, or to what, but I cannot see how it could have changed, either. If there are any Black Ajah still here, they will surely see us the same way, whether they suspect what were doing or not." Egwene swallowed. "I hadnt thought of that. Light, I wish I were invisible. Nynaeve, if they are still after us, I will risk being stilled before I let Darkfriends kill me, or maybe worse. And I wont believe you will let them take you, either, no matter what you told the Amyrlin." "I meant it." For a moment Nynaeve seemed to rouse from her thoughts. Her steps slowed. A palehaired novice carrying a tray rushed past. "I meant every word, Egwene." Nynaeve went on when the novice was out of hearing. "There are other ways to defend ourselves. If there were not, Aes Sedai would be killed every time they left the Tower. We just have to reason those ways out, and use them." "I know several ways already, and so do you." "They are dangerous." Egwene opened her mouth to say they were only dangerous to whoever attacked her, but Nynaeve plowed on over her. "You can come to like them too much. When I let out all my anger at those Whitecloaks this morning... It felt too good. It is too dangerous." She shivered and quickened her pace again, and Egwene had to step lively to catch up. "You sound like Sheriam. You never have before. You have pushed every limit theyve put on you. Why would you accept limits now, when we might have to ignore them to stay alive?" "What good if it ends with us being put out of the Tower? Stilled or not, what good then?" Nynaeves voice dropped as if she were speaking to herself. "I can do it. I must, if Im to stay here long enough to learn, and I must learn if Im to - " Suddenly she seemed to realize she was speaking aloud. She shot a hard look at Egwene, and her voice firmed. "Let me think. Please, be quiet and let me think." Egwene held her tongue, but inside she bubbled with unasked questions. What special reason did Nynaeve have for wanting to learn more of what the White Tower could teach? What was it she wanted to do? Why was Nynaeve keeping it secret from her? Secrets. Weve learned to keep too many secrets since coming to the Tower. The Amyrlin it keeping secrets from us, too. Light, what is Nynaeve accompanied her all the way back to the novices quarters, not turning aside to the Accepteds quarters. The galleries were still empty, and they met no one as they climbed the spiraling ramps. As they came up on Elaynes room, Nynaeve stopped, knocked once, and immediately opened the door and put her head inside. Then she was letting the white door swing shut and striding toward the next, Egwenes room. "She isnt here yet," she said. "I need to talk to both of you." Egwene caught her shoulders and pulled her to an abrupt halt. "What-?" Something tugged at her hair, stung her ear. A black blur streaked in front of her face to clang against the wall, and in the next breath Nynaeve was bearing her to the gallery floor, behind the railing. Wideeyed and sprawling, Egwene stared at what lay on the stone in front of her door, where it had fallen. A bolt from a crossbow. A few dark strands from her hair were tangled in the four heavy prongs, meant for punching through armor. She raised a trembling hand to touch her ear, to touch the tiniest nick, damp with a bead of blood. If I had not stopped just then... If I hadnt... The quarrel would have gone right through her head, and would probably have killed Nynaeve, too. "Blood and ashes!" she gasped. "Blood and bloody ashes!" "Watch your language," Nynaeve admonished, but her heart was not in it. She lay peering between the white stone balusters toward the far side of the galleries. A glow surrounded her, to Egwenes eyes. She had embraced saidar. Hastily, Egwene tried to reach out for the One Power, too, but at first haste defeated her. Haste, and images that kept intruding on the emptiness, images of her head being ripped apart like a rotten melon by a heavy quarrel that went on to bury itself in Nynaeve. She took a deep breath and tried again, and finally the rose floated in nothingness, opened to the True Source, and the Power filled her. She rolled onto her stomach to peer through the railing beside Nynaeve. "Do you see anything? Do you see him? Ill put a lightning bolt through him!" She could feel it building, pressing on her to loose it. "It is a man, isnt it?" She could not imagine a man coming into the novices quarters, but it was impossible to picture a woman carrying a crossbow through the Tower. "I dont know." Quiet anger filled Nynaeves voice; her anger was always at its worst when she grew quiet with it. "I thought I saw - Yes! There!" Egwene felt the Power pulse in the other woman, and then Nynaeve was unhurriedly getting to her feet, brushing at her dress as if there were nothing more to worry about. Egwene stared at her. "What? What did you do? Nynaeve?" " Of the Five Powers, " Nynaeve said in a lecturing tone, faintly mocking, " Air, sometimes called Wind, is thought by many to be of the least use. This is far from true. " She finished with a tight laugh. "I told you there were other ways to defend ourselves. I used Air, to hold him with air. If it is a he; I could not see him clearly. A trick the Amyrlin showed me once, though I doubt she expected me to see how it was done. Well, are you going to lie there all day?" Egwene scrambled up to hurry after her around the gallery. Before long a man did come into sight around the curve, dressed in plain brown breeches and coat. He stood facing the other way, balanced on the ball of one foot, with the other hanging in midair as if he had been caught in the middle of running. The man would feel as if he were buried in thick jelly, yet it was nothing but air stiffened around him. Egwene remembered the Amyrlins trick, too, but she did not think she could duplicate it. Nynaeve only had to see a thing done once to know how to do it herself. When she could manage to channel at all, of course. They came closer, and Egwenes melding with the Power vanished in shock. The hilt of a dagger stood out from the mans chest. His face sagged, and death had already filmed his halfclosed eyes. He crumpled to the gallery floor as Nynaeve loosed the trap that had held him. He was an averageappearing man, of average height and average build, with features so ordinary Egwene did not think she would have noticed him in a group of three. She only studied him a moment, though, before realizing that something was missing. A crossbow. She gave a start and looked about wildly. "There had to be another one, Nynaeve. Somebody took the crossbow. And somebody stabbed him. He could be out there ready to shoot at us again." "Calm yourself," Nynaeve said, but she peered both ways along the gallery, jerking at her braid. "Just be calm, and we will figure out what to-" Her words cut off at the sound of steps on the ramp leading up to their level. Egwenes heart pounded, seemingly in her throat. Eyes fastened on the head of the ramp, she desperately strove to touch saidar again, but for her that required calm, and her heartbeats shattered calm . Sheriam Sedai stopped at the top of the ramp, frowning at what she saw. "What in the name of the Light has happened here?" She hurried forward, her serenity gone for once. "We found him," Nynaeve said as the Mistress of Novices knelt beside the corpse. Sheriam put a hand to the mans chest, and jerked it back twice as fast, hissing. Steeling herself visibly, she touched him again, and maintained the Touch longer. "Dead," she muttered. "As dead as it is possible to be, and more." When she straightened, she pulled a handkerchief from her sleeve and wiped her fingers. "You found him? Here? Like this?" Egwene nodded, sure that if she spoke, Sheriam would hear the lie in her voice. "We did," Nynaeve said firmly. Sheriam shook her head. "A man - a dead man, at that! - in the novices quarters would be scandal enough, but this... !" "What makes him different?" Nynaeve asked. "And how could he be more than dead?" a deep breath, and gave them each a searching look. "He is one of the Soulless. A Gray Man." Absently, she wiped her fingers again, her eyes going back to the body. Worried eyes. "The Soulless?" Egwene said, a tremor in her voice, at the same time that Nynaeve said, "A Gray Man?" Sheriam glanced at them, a look as penetrating as it was brief. "Not a part of your studies, yet, but you seem to have gone beyond the rules in a great many ways. And considering you found this..." She gestured to the corpse. "The Soulless, the Gray Men, give up their souls to serve the Dark One as assassins. They are not really alive, after that. Not quite dead, but not truly alive. And despite the name, some Gray Men are women. A very few. Even among Darkfriends, only a handful of women are stupid enough to make that sacrifice. You can look right at them and hardly notice them, until it is too late. He was as much as dead while he walked. Now, only my eyes tell me that what is lying there ever lived at all." She gave them another long look. "No Gray Man has dared enter Tar Valon sinc "What will you do?" Egwene asked. Sheriams brows rose, and she quickly added, "If I may ask, Sheriam Sedai." The Aes Sedai hesitated. "I suppose you may, since you had the bad luck to find him. It will be up to the Amyrlin Seat, but with everything that has happened, I believe she will want to keep this as quiet as is possible. We do not need more rumors. You will speak of this to none but me, or to the Amyrlin, should she mention it first." "Yes, Aes Sedai," Egwene said fervently. Nynaeves voice was cooler. Sheriam appeared to take their obedience for granted. She gave no sign of having heard them. Her attention was all on the dead man. The Gray Man. The Soulless. "There will be no hiding the fact that a man was killed here." The glow of the One Power suddenly surrounded her, and just as abruptly, a long, low dome covered the body on the floor, grayish and so opaque that it was hard to see there was a body under it. "But this will keep anyone else from touching him who can discover his nature. I must have this removed before the novices come back." Her tilted green eyes regarded them as if she had just remembered their presence. "You two go, now. To your room, I think, Nynaeve. Considering what you are already facing, if it became known you were involved in this, even on the edge of it... Go." Egwene curtsied, and tugged at Nynaeves sleeve, but Nynaeve said, "Why did you come up here, Sheriam Sedai?" For a moment Sheriam looked startled, but on the instant she frowned. Fists on her hips, she regarded Nynaeve with all the firmness of her office. "Does the Mistress of Novices now need an excuse for coming to the novices quarters, Accepted?" she said softly. "Do Accepted now question Aes Sedai? The Amyrlin means to make something of you two, but whether she does or not, I will teach you manners, at least. Now, the pair of you, go, before I haul you both down to my study, and not for the appointment the Amyrlin Seat has already set for you." A sudden thought came to Egwene. "Forgive me, Sheriam Sedai," she said quickly, "but I must fetch my cloak. I feel cold." She rushed away, around the gallery before the Aes Sedai could speak. If Sheriam found that crossbow bolt in front of her door, there would be too many questions. No pretending they had only found the man, that he had no connection to her, then. But when she reached the door to her room, the heavy bolt was gone. Only the jagged chip in the stone beside the door said it had ever been there. Egwenes skin crawled. How could anyone take it without one of us seeing... Another Gray Man! She had embraced saidar before she knew it, only the sweet flow of the Power inside her telling her what she had done. Even so, it was one of the hardest things she had ever done, opening that door and going into her room. There was no one there. She snatched the white cloak off its peg and ran out, anyway, and she did not release saidar until she was halfway back to the others. Something more had passed between the women while she was gone. Nynaeve was attempting to appear meek, and succeeding only in looking as if she had a sour stomach. Sheriam had her fists on her hips and was tapping her foot irritably, and the stare she was giving Nynaeve, like green millstones ready to start grinding barley flour, took in Egwene equally. "Forgive me, Sheriam Sedai," she said hastily, dropping a curtsy and settling her cloak on her shoulders at the same time. "This... finding a dead man-a&hellip; a Gray Man! - it made me cold. If we may go now?" At Sheriams tight nod of dismissal, Nynaeve made a bare curtsy. Egwene seized her arm and hustled her away. "Are you trying to make more trouble for us?" she demanded when they were two levels down. And safely out of earshot of Sheriam, she hoped. "What else did you say to her, to make her glare like that? More questions, I suppose? I hope you learned something worth making her mad at us." "She would not say anything," Nynaeve muttered. "We must ask questions if we are to do any good, Egwene. We will have to take a few chances, or well never learn anything." Egwene sighed. "Well, be a little more circumspect." From the set of Nynaeves face, the other woman had no intention of going easy or avoiding risks. Egwene sighed again. "The crossbow bolt was gone, Nynaeve. It must have been another Gray Man who took it." "So that is why you... Light!" Nynaeve frowned and gave a sharp tug to her braid. After a time Egwene said, "What was that she did to cover the... the body?" She did not want to think of it as a Gray Man; that reminded her there was another one out there. She did not want to think of anything at all, right then. "Air," Nynaeve replied. "She used Air. A neat trick, and I think I see how to make something useful with it." The use of the One Power was divided into the Five Powers: Earth, Air, Fire, Water, and Spirit. Different Talents required different combinations of the Five Powers. "I dont understand some of the ways the Five Powers are combined. Take Healing. I can see why it requires Spirit, and maybe Air, but why Water?" Nynaeve rounded on her. "What are you babbling about? Have you forgotten what were doing?" She looked around. They had reached the Accepteds quarters, a stack of galleries lower than the novices quarters, surrounding a garden rather than a court. There was no one in sight except for another Accepted, hurrying along on another level, but she lowered her voice. "Have you forgotten the Black Ajah?" "I am trying to forget it," Egwene said fiercely. "For a little while, anyway. I am trying to forget that we just left a dead man. Im trying to forget that he almost killed me, and that he has a companion who might try it again." She touched her ear; the drop of blood had dried, but the nick still hurt. "We are lucky we arent both dead right now." Nynaeves face softened, but when she spoke her voice held something of the time when she had been the Wisdom of Emonds Field, saying words that had to be said for someones own good. "Remember that body, Egwene. Remember that he tried to kill you. Kill us. Remember the Black Ajah. Remember them all the time. Because if you forget, just once, the next time, it may be you lying dead." w," Egwene sighed. "But I do not have to like it." "Did you notice what Sheriam did not mention?" "No. What?" "She never wondered who stabbed him. Now, come on. My room is just down here, and you can put your fee PROLOGUE 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 16 17 18 20 21 22 23 24 25 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 House, so it was me that the Guild held responsible 42 43 44 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56Back to Table of contentTOP AUTHORSTerry PratchettDarren ShanSamantha YoungGav ThorpePamela PalmerGene WolfeF. Paul WilsonAmanda MaxlynJodi Ellen MalpasJill ShalvisSusan HillSherrilyn KenyonMegan ShepherdColleen GleasonKylie ScottCourtney SummersElizabeth KostovaYanna LeeTobias S. BuckellJennifer EstepGeorgia CatesEmma ChaseJ.C. ReedC.J. EllissonBrent WeeksKendare BlakeSam SykesMeg CabotNicole Peeler Philip AthansLauren KateS.D. PerryMax BrooksFritz LeiberMaryJanice DavidsonJames S.A. CoreyR.K. LilleyMolly McAdamsRobert McCammonKatja Millay < Copyright © novelfull thefreeonlinenovel.com All Rights Reserved.