 Toggle navigationHomeLatest UpdateAdventureChristianFantasyHistoricalHorrorHumorousMysteryRomanceScience FictionThrillerWesternYoung AdultTop BooksPreySphereBlack RoseThe Great Train RobberyBlue DahliaCarnal InnocenceDance Upon the AirHigh NoonLawlessSacred SinsTributeFace the FireHolding the DreamA Man for AmandaAll the PossibilitiesNextThe Dragon Reborn 8 () 8 (Wolf) Jarra Gray stone houses with slate roofs lay clustered along the few narrow streets of Jarra, clinging to a hillside above a little stream spanned by a low wooden bridge. The muddy streets were empty, and so was the sloping village green, except for one man sweeping the steps of the villages only inn, standing beside its stone stable; but it looked as if there had been a good many people on the green not long before. Half a dozen arches, woven of green branches and dotted with such few flowers as could be found this early in the year, stood in a circle in the middle of the grass. The ground had a trampled look, and there were other signs of a gathering; a womans red scarf lying tangled at the foot of one of the arches, a childs knitted cap, a pewter pitcher tumbled on its side, a few halfeaten scraps of food. The aromas of sweet wine and spiced cakes clung about the green, mixed in with smoke from dozens of chimneys and evening meals cooking. For an instant Perrins nose caught another odor, one he could not identify, a faint trail that raised the hair on the back of his neck with its vileness. Then it was gone. But he was sure something had passed that way, something - wrong. He scrubbed at his nose as if to rub away the memory of it. That cant be Rand. Light, even if he has gone mad, that cant be him. Can it? A painted sign hung above the inn door, a man standing on one foot with his arms thrown in the air: Hardins Leap. As they drew rein in front of the square stone building, the sweeper straightened, yawning fiercely. He gave a start at Perrins eyes, but his own already protruding eyes went wide when they fell on Loial. With his wide mouth and no chin to speak of, he looked something like a frog. There was an old smell of sour wine about him - to Perrin, at least. The fellow had certainly been part of the celebration. The man gave himself a shake, and turned it into a bow with one hand resting on the double row of wooden buttons running down his coat. His eyes flickered from one to another of them, popping even more every time they rested on Loial. "Welcome, good mistress, and the Light illumine your way. Welcome, good masters. You wish food, rooms, baths? All to be had, here at the Leap. Master Harod, the innkeeper, keeps a good house. I am called Simion. If you wish anything, ask for Simion, and he will get it for you." He yawned again, covering his mouth in embarrassment and bowing to hide it. "I beg your pardon, good mistress. You have come far? Have you word of the Great Hunt? The Hunt for the Horn of Valere? Or the false Dragon? Its said theres a false Dragon in Tarabon. Or maybe Arad Doman." "We have not come that far," Lan said, swinging down from his saddle. "No doubt you know more than I." They all began dismounting. "You have had a wedding here?" Moiraine said. "A wedding, good mistress? Why, weve had a lifetime of weddings. A plague of them. All in the last two days. There isnt a woman old enough to speak the betrothal remains unmarried, not in the whole village, not for a mile in any direction. Why, even Widow Jorath dragged old Banas through the arches, and theyd both sworn theyd never marry again. It was like a whirlwind just snatched everybody up. Rilith, the weavers daughter, she started it, asking Jon the blacksmith to marry her, and him old enough to be her father and more. The old fool just took off his apron and said yes, and she demanded the arches be put up right then and there. Wouldnt hear of a proper wait, and all the other women sided with her. Since then weve had marriages day and night. Why, nobodys had any sleep at all hardly." "Thats very interesting," Perrin said when Simion paused to yawn again, "but have you seen a young -" "It is very interesting," Moiraine said, cutting him off, "and I would hear more of it later, perhaps. For now, we would like rooms, and a meal." Lan made a small gesture toward Perrin, down low, as if telling him to hold his tongue. "Of course, good mistress. A meal. Rooms." Simion hesitated, eyeing Loial. "Well have to push two beds together for-" He leaned closer to Moiraine and dropped his voice. "Pardon, good mistress, but - uh - what exactly - is he? Meaning no disrespect," he added hastily. He had not spoken softly enough, for Loials ears twitched irritably. "I am an Ogier! What did you think I was? A Trolloc?" Simion took a step back at the booming voice. "Trolloc, good - uh - master? Why, Im a grown man. I dont believe in childrens tales. Uh, did you say Ogier? Why, Ogier are childr - I mean... that is..." In desperation, he turned to bellow toward the stable next to the inn. "Nico! Patrim! Visitors! Come see to their horses!" After a moment two boys with hay in their hair tumbled out of the stable, yawning and rubbing their eyes. Simion gestured to the steps, bowing, as the boys gathered reins. Perrin slung his saddlebags and blanketroll over his shoulder and carried his bow as he followed Moiraine and Lan inside, with Simion bowing and bobbing ahead of them. Loial had to duck low under the lintel, and the ceiling inside only cleared his head by a foot. He kept rumbling to himself about not understanding why so few humans remembered the Ogier. His voice was like distant thunder. Even Perrin, right in front of him, could only und The inn smelled of ale and wine, cheese and weariness, and the aroma of roasting mutton drifted from somewhere in the back. The few men in the common room sagged over their mugs as if they would really like to lie down on the benches and go to sleep. One plump serving woman was drawing a mug of ale from one of the barrels at the end of the room. The innkeeper himself, in a long white apron, sat on a tall stool in the corner, leaning against the wall. As the newcomers entered, he lifted his head, blearyeyed. His jaw dropped at the sight of Loial. "Visitors, Master Harod," Simion announced. "They want rooms. Master Harod? Hes an Ogier, Master Harod." The serving woman turned and saw Loial, and dropped the mug with a clatter. None of the weary men at the tables even looked up. One had put his head down on the table and was snoring. Loials ears twitched violently. Master Harod got to his feet slowly, eyes fastened on Loial, smoothing his apron all the while. "At least he isnt a Whitecloak," he said at last, then gave a start as if surprised he had spoken aloud. "That is to say, welcome, good mistress. Good masters. Forgive my lack of manners. I can only plead tiredness, good mistress." He darted another glance at Loial, and mouthed "Ogier?" with a look of disbelief. Loial opened his mouth, but Moiraine forestalled him. "As your man said, good innkeeper, I wish rooms for my party for the night, and a meal." "Oh! Of course, good mistress. Of course. Simion, show these good people to my best rooms, so they can put down their belongings. Ill have a fine meal laid out for you when you return, good mistress. A fine meal." "If it pleases you to follow me, good mistress," Simion said. "Good masters." He bowed the way to stairs at one side of the common room. Behind them, one of the men at the tables suddenly exclaimed, "What in the name of the Light is that?" Master Harod began explaining about Ogier, making it sound as if he were quite familiar with them. Most of what Perrin heard before they left the voices behind was wrong. Loials ears twitched without stop. On the second floor, the Ogiers head came near to brushing along the ceiling. The narrow corridor was growing dark, with only the sharp light of sunset through a window next to the door at the far end. "Candles in the rooms, good mistress," Simion said. "I should have brought a lamp, but my head is still spinning from all those weddings. Ill send someone up to light the fire, if you wish. And youll want wash water, of course." He pushed open a door. "Our best room, good mistress. We dont have many - not many strangers, you see - but this is our best." "Ill take the one next to it," Lan said. He had Moiraines blanketroll and saddlebags on his shoulder as well as his own, and the bundle containing the Dragon banner, too. "Oh, good master, thats not a very good room at all. Narrow bed. Cramped. Meant for a servant, I suspect, as if wed ever have anybody here who had a servant. Begging your pardon, good mistress." "I will take it anyway," Lan said firmly. "Simion," Moiraine said, "does Master Harod dislike the Children of the Light?" "Well, he does, good mistress. He didnt, but he does. It isnt good policy, disliking the Children, not so close to the border as we are. They come through Jarra all the time, like there wasnt any border at all. But there was trouble, yesterday. A fistful of trouble. And with the weddings going on, and all." "What happened, Simion?" The man looked at her sharply before answering. Perrin did not think anyone else saw how sharply, in the dimness. "There was about twenty of them, come day before yesterday. No trouble then. But yesterday... Why, three of them up and announced they werent Children of the Light anymore. They took off their cloaks and just rode away." Lan grunted. "Whitecloaks swear for life. What did their commander do?" "Why, he would have done something, you can be sure, good master, but another of them announced he was off to find the Horn of Valere. Anyway, still another said they should be hunting the Dragon. That one said he was going to Almoth Plain when he left. Then some of them started saying things to women in the streets, things they shouldnt have, and grabbing at them. The women were screaming, and Children yelling at the ones bothering the women. I never saw such commotion." "Didnt any of you try to stop them?" Perrin said. "Good master, you carry that axe like you know how to use it, but it isnt so easy to face up to men with swords and armor and all, when all you know how to use is a broom or a hoe. The rest of the Whitecloaks, those as hadnt gone off, put an end to it. Almost came to drawing swords. And that wasnt the worst. Two more just went mad - if the others werent. Those two started raving that Jarra was full of Darkfriends. They tried to burn the village down - said they would! - beginning with the Leap. You can see the burn marks out back, where they got it started. Fought the other Whitecloaks when they tried to stop them. The Whitecloaks that were left, they helped us put it out, tied those two up tight, and rode out of here, back toward Amadicia. Good riddance, I say, and if they never come back, itll be too soon." "Rough behavior," Lan said, "even for Whitecloaks." Simion bobbed his head in agreement. "As you say, good master. They never acted like that before. Swagger around, yes. Look at you like you were dirt, and poke their noses in where they hadnt any business. But they never caused trouble before. Not like that, anyway." are gone now," Moiraine said, "and troubles with them. I am sure we will pass a quiet night." Perrin kept his mouth shut, but he was not quiet inside. All these weddings and Whitecloaks are all very well, but Id sooner know if Rand stopped here, and which way he went when he left. That smell couldnt have been him. He let Simion guide him on down the hall to another room, with two beds and a washstand, a pair of stools and not much else. Loial stooped to put his head through the doorway. Only a little light came in by the narrow windows. The beds were big enough, with blankets and comforters folded at the foot, but the mattresses looked lumpy. Simion fumbled on the mantel above the fireplace until he found a candle, and a tinderbox to get it alight. "Ill see about getting some beds put together for you, good - uh- Ogier. Yes, just a moment, now." He showed no sign of hurry to be about it, though, fussing with the candlestick as if he had to place it just right. Perrin Well, Id be more than uneasy if Whitecloaks had been acting like that in Emonds Field. "Simion, has another stranger passed through here in the last day or two? A young man, tall, with gray eyes and reddish hair? He might have played the flute for a meal or a bed." "I remember him, good master," Simion said, still shifting the candlestick. "Came yesterday morning, early. Looked hungry, he did. He played the flute for all the weddings, yesterday. Goodlooking young fellow. Some of the women eyed him, at first, but..." He paused, looking at Perrin sideways. "Is he a friend of yours, good master?" "I know him," Perrin said. "Why?" Simion hesitated. "No reason, good master. He was an odd fellow, thats all. He talked to himself, sometimes, and sometimes he laughed when nobody had said anything. Slept in this very room, last night, or part of it. Woke us all in the middle of the night, yelling. It was just a nightmare, but he wouldnt stay any longer. Master Harod didnt make much effort to talk him into it, after all that noise." Simion paused again. "He said something strange when he left." "What?" Perrin demanded. "He said somebody was after him. He said..." The chinless man swallowed and went on more slowly. "Said theyd kill him if he didnt go. One of us has to die, and I mean it to be him. His very words." "He did not mean us," Loial rumbled. "We are his friends." "Of course, good - uh - good Ogier. Of course, he didnt mean you. I - uh - I dont mean to say anything about a friend of yours, but I - uh - I - think hes sick. In the head, you know." "We will take care of him," Perrin said. "Thats why were following him. Which way did he go?" "I knew it," Simion said, bouncing on his toes. "I knew she could help as soon as I saw you. Which way? East, good master. East, like the Dark One himself was on his heels. Do you think shell help me? Help my brother, that is? Noams bad sick, and Mother Roon says she cant do anything." Perrin kept his face expressionless, and bought a little time to think by propping his bow in the corner and setting his blanketroll and saddlebags on one of the beds. The problem was that thinking did not help much. He looked at Loial, but found no help there; consternation had the Ogiers ears drooping and his long eyebrows hanging down on his cheeks. "What makes you think she can help your brother?" Stupid question! The right question is, what does he mean to do about it? "Why, I traveled to Jehannah, once, good master, and I saw two... two women like her. I couldnt mistake her after that." His voice dropped to a whisper. "Its said they can raise the dead, good master." "Who else knows this?" Perrin asked sharply, and at the same time Loial said, "If your brother is dead, there is nothing anyone can do." The frogfaced man looked from one to the other of them anxiously, and his words came in a babble. "No one knows but me, good master. Noam isnt dead, good Ogier, only sick. I swear nobody else could recognize her. Even Master Harods never been more than twenty miles from here in his life . Hes so bad sick. Id ask her myself, only my kneesd be shaking so hard she couldnt hear me talk. What if she took offense and called down lightning on me? And what if Id been wrong? It isnt the kind of thing you accuse a woman of without... I mean&hellip; ooh..." He raised his hands, half in pleading, half as if to defend himself. "I can make no promises," Perrin said, "but Ill speak to her. Loial, why dont you keep Simion company till Ive spoken to Moiraine?" "Of course," the Ogier boomed. Simion gave a start when Loials hand swallowed his shoulder. "He will show me my room, and we will talk. Tell me, Simion, what do you know of trees?" "Tttrees, ggood Ogier?" Perrin did not wait any longer. He hurried back down the dark hall and knocked on Moiraines door, barely waiting for her peremptory "Come!" before pushing in. Half a dozen candles showed that the Leaps best room was none too good, though the one bed had four tall posts supporting a canopy, and the mattress looked less full of lumps than Perrins. There was a scrap of carpet on the floor, and two cushioned chairs instead of stools. Other than that, it looked no different from his room. Moiraine and Lan stood in front of the cold hearth as if they had been discussing something, and the Aes Sedai did not look pleased at being interrupted. The Warders face was as imperturbable as a carving. "Rands been here, all right," Perrin started off. "That fellow Simion remembers him." Moiraine hissed through her teeth. "You were told to keep your mouth shut," Lan growled. Perrin squared his feet to face the Warder. That was easier than facing Moiraines glare. "How could we find out whether he had been here without asking questions? Tell me that. He left last night, if you are interested, heading east. And he was carrying on about somebody following him, trying to kill him." "East." Moiraine nodded. The utter calm of her voice was at odds with her disapproving eyes. "That is good to know, though it had to be so if he is going to Tear. But I was fairly certain he had been here even before I heard about the Whitecloaks, and they made it a certainty. Rand is almost surely right about one thing, Perrin. I cannot believe we are the only ones trying to find him. And if they find out about us, they may well try to stop us. We have enough to contend with trying to catch up to Rand without that. You must learn to hold your tongue until I tell you to speak." hitecloaks?" Perrin said incredulously. Hold my tongue? Burn me, if I will! "How could they tell you -? Rands madness. It is catching?" "Not his madness," Moiraine said, "if he is far enough gone yet to be called mad. Perrin, he is more strongly taveren than anyone since the Age of Legends. Yesterday, in this village, the Pattern... moved, shaped itself around him like clay shaped on a mold. The weddings, the Whitecloaks, these were enough to say Rand had been here, for anyone who knew to listen." Perrin drew a long breath. "And this is what well find everywhere hes been? Light, if there are Shadowspawn after him, they can track him a "Perhaps," Moiraine said. "Perhaps not. No one knows anything about taveren as strong as Rand." For just a moment she sounded vexed at not knowing. "Artur Hawkwing was the most strongly taveren of whom any writings remain. And Hawkwing was in no way as strong as Rand." "It is said," Lan put in, "that there were times when people in the same room with Hawkwing spoke truth when they meant to lie, made decisions they had not even known they were contemplating. Times when every toss of the dice, every turn of the cards, went his way. But only times." "You mean you dont know," Perrin said. "He could leave a trail of weddings and Whitecloaks gone mad all the way to Tear." "I mean I know as much as there is to know," Moiraine said sharply. Her darkeyed gaze chastised Perrin like a whip. "The Pattern weaves finely around taveren, and others can follow the shape of those threads if they know where to look. Be careful your tongue does not unravel more than you can know." In spite of himself Perrin hunched his shoulders as if she were delivering real blows. "Well, you had better be glad I opened my mouth this time. Simion knows youre Aes Sedai. He wants you to Heal his brother Noam of some sickness. If I hadnt talked to him, he would never have worked up nerve enough to ask, but he might have started talking among his friends." Lan caught Moiraines eye, and for a moment they stared at one another. The Warder had the air about him of a wolf about to leap. Finally, Moiraine shook her head. "No," she said. "As you wish. It is your decision." Lan sounded as if he thought she had made the wrong one, but the tension left him. Perrin stared at them. "You were thinking of... Simion couldnt tell anyone if he were dead, could he?" "He will not die by my actions," Moiraine said. "But I cannot, and will not, promise that it will always be so. We must find Rand, and I will not fail in that. Is that spoken plainly enough for you?" Caught in her gaze, Perrin could make no answer. She nodded as if his silence were answer enough. "Now take me to Simion." The door to Loials room stood open, spilling a pool of candlelight into the hall. The two beds inside had been pushed together, and Loial and Simion were seated on the edge of one. The chinless man was staring up at Loial with his mouth open and an expression of wonder on his face. "Oh, yes, the stedding are wonderful," Loial was saying. "There is such peace there, under the Great Trees. You humans may have your wars and strife, but nothing ever troubles the stedding. We tend the trees and live in harmony..." He trailed off when he saw Moiraine, with Lan and Perrin behind her. Simion scrambled to his feet, bowing and backing away until he came up against the far wall. "Uh... good mistress... Uh... uh..." Even then, he continued bobbing like a toy on a string. "Show me to your brother," Moiraine commanded, "and I will do what I can. Perrin, you will come, too, since this good man spoke to you first." Lan lifted an eyebrow, and she shook her head. "If we all go, we might attract attention. Perrin can give me what protection I need." Lan nodded reluctantly, then gave Perrin a hard look. "See that you do, blacksmith. If any harm befalls her..." His cold blue eyes finished the promise. Simion snatched one of the candles and scurried into the hallway, still bowing so the candlelight made their shadows dance. "This way - uh - good mistress. This way." Beyond the door at the end of the hall, outside stairs led down to a cramped alleyway between inn and stable. Night shrank the candle to a flickering pinpoint. The half moon was up in a starflecked sky, giving more than enough light for Perrins eyes. He wondered when Moiraine would tell Simion he did not have to keep bowing, but she never did. The Aes Sedai glided along, clutching her skirts to keep them out of the mud, as though the dark passage were a palace hall and she a queen. The air was already cooling; nights still carried echoes of winter. "This way." Simion led them back to a small shed behind the stable and hurriedly unbarred the door. "This way." Simion pointed. "There, good mistress. There. My brother. Noam." The far end of the shed had been barred off with slats of wood; hastily, by the rough look of it. A stout iron lock in a hasp held shut a crude door of wooden slats. Behind those bars, a man lay sprawled on his stomach on the strawcovered floor. He was barefoot, his shirt and breeches ripped as if he had torn at them without knowing how to take them off. There was an odor of unwashed flesh that Perrin thought even Simion and Moiraine must smell. Noam lifted his head and stared at them silently, without expression. There was nothing at all about him to suggest he was Simions brother - he had a chin, for one thing, and he was a big man, with heavy shoulders - but that was not what staggered Perrin. Noam stared at them with burnished golden eyes. "Hed been talking crazy almost a year, good mistress, saying he could... could talk with wolves. And his eyes..." Simion darted a glance at Perrin: "Well, hed talk about it when hed drunk too much. Everybody laughed at him. Then a month or so ago, he didnt come to town. I went out to see what was the matter, and I found him - like this." Cautiously, unwillingly, Perrin reached out toward Noam as he would have toward a wolf. Running through the woods with the cold wind in his nose. Quick dash from cover, teeth snapping at hamstrings. Taste of blood, rich on the tongue. Kill. Perrin jerked back as he would have from a fire, sealed himself off. They were not thoughts at all, really, just a chaotic jumble of desires and images, part memory, part yearning. But there was more wolf there than anything else. He put a hand to the wall to steady himself; his knees felt weak. Light help me! Moiraine put a hand on the lock. "Master Harod has the key, good mistress. I dont know if hell-" ug, and the lock sprang open. Simion gaped at her. She lifted the lock free of the hasp, and the chinless man turned to Perrin. "Is that safe, good master? Hes my brother, but he bit Mother Roon when she tried to help, and he... he killed a cow. With his teeth," he finished faintly. "Moiraine," Perrin said, "the man is dangerous." "All men are dangerous," she replied in a cool voice. "Now be quiet." She opened the door and went i At her first step, Noams lips peeled back from his teeth, and he began to growl, a rumble that deepened till his whole body quivered. Moiraine ignored it. Still growling, Noam wriggled backwards in the straw as she came closer to him, until he had backed himself into a corner. Or she had backed him. Slowly, calmly, the Aes Sedai knelt and took his head between her hands. Noams growl heightened to a snarl, then tailed off in a whimper before Perrin could move. For a long moment Moiraine held Noams head, then just as calmly released it and rose. Perrins throat tightened as she turned her back on Noam and walked out of the cage, but the man only stared after her. She pushed the slatted door to, slipped the lock back through the hasp, not bothering to snap it shut - and Noam hurled himself snarling against the wooden bars. He bit at them, and battered them with his shoulders, tried to force his head between them, all the while snarling and snapping. Moiraine brushed straw from her skirt with a steady hand and no expression. "You do take chances," Perrin breathed. She looked at him - a steady, knowing gaze - and he dropped his eyes. His yellow eyes. Simion was staring at his brother. "Can you help him, good mistress?" he asked hoarsely. "I am sorry, Simion," she said. "Cant you do anything, good mistress? Something? One of those- " his voice fell to a whisper - "Aes Sedai things?" "Healing is not a simple matter, Simion, and it comes from within as much as from the Healer. There is nothing here that remembers being Noam, nothing that remembers being a man. There are no maps remaining to show him the path back, and nothing left to take that path. Noam is gone, Simion." "He - he just used to talk funny, good mistress, when hed had too much to drink. He just..." Simion scrubbed a hand across his eyes and blinked. "Thank you, good mistress. I know youd have done something if you could." She put a hand on his shoulder, murmured comforting words, and then she was gone from the shed. Perrin knew he should follow her, but the man - what had once been a man - snapping at the wooden bars, held him. He took a quick step and surprised himself by removing the dangling lock from the hasp. The lock was a good one, the work of a master smith. "Good master?" Perrin stared at the lock in his hand, at the man behind in the cage. Noam had stopped biting at the slats; he stared back at Perrin warily, panting. Some of his teeth had broken off jaggedly. "You can leave him in here forever," Perrin said, "but I - I dont think hell ever get any better." "If he gets out, good master, hell die!" "He will die in here or out there, Simion. Out there, at least hell be free, and as happy as he can be. He is not your brother anymore, but youre the one who has to decide. You can leave him in here for people to stare at, leave him to stare at the bars of his cage until he pines away. You cannot cage a wolf, Simion, not and expect it to be happy. Or live long." "Yes," Simion said slowly. "Yes, I see." He hesitated, then nodded, and jerked his head toward the shed door. That was all the answer Perrin needed. He swung back the slatted door and stood aside. For a moment Noam stared at the opening. Abruptly he darted out of the cage, running on all fours, but with surprising agility. Out of the cage, out of the shed, and into the night. The Light help us both, Perrin thought. "I suppose its better for him to be free." Simion gave himself a shake. "But I dont know what Master Harod will say when he finds that door standing open and Noam gone." Perrin shut the cage door; the big lock made a sharp click as he refastened it. "Let him puzzle that out." Simion barked a quick laugh, abruptly cut off. "Hell make something out of it. They all will. Some of them say Noam turned into a wolf - fur and all! - when he bit Mother Roon. Its not true, but they say it." Shivering, Perrin leaned his head against the cage door. He may not have fur, but hes a wolf. Hes wolf, not man. Light, help me. "We didnt keep him here always," Simion said suddenly. "He was at Mother Roons house, but she and I got Master Harod to move him here after the Whitecloaks came. They always have a list of names, Darkfriends theyre looking for. It was Noams eyes, you see. One of the names the Whitecloaks had was a fellow named Perrin Aybara, a blacksmith. They said he has yellow eyes, and runs with wolves. You can see why I didnt want them to know about Noam." d his head enough to look at Simion over his shoulder. "Do you think this Perrin Aybara is a Darkfriend?" "A Darkfriend wouldnt care if my brother died in a cage. I suppose she found you soon after it happened. In time to help. I wish shed come to Jarra a few months ago." Perrin was ashamed that he had ever compared the man to a frog. "And I wish she could have done something for him." Burn me, I wish she could. Suddenly it burst on him that the whole village must know about Noam. About his eyes. "Simion, would you bring me something to eat in my room?" Master Harod and the rest might have been too taken with staring at Loial to notice his eyes before, but they surely would if he ate in the common room. "Of course. And in the morning, too. You dont have to come down until you are ready to get on your horse." "You are a good man, Simion. A good man." Simion looked so pleased that Perrin felt ashamed all over again. PROLOGUE