 Toggle navigationHomeLatest UpdateAdventureChristianFantasyHistoricalHorrorHumorousMysteryRomanceScience FictionThrillerWesternYoung AdultTop BooksPreySphereBlack RoseThe Great Train RobberyBlue DahliaCarnal InnocenceDance Upon the AirHigh NoonLawlessSacred SinsTributeFace the FireHolding the DreamA Man for AmandaAll the PossibilitiesNextThe Dragon Reborn 53 () 53 (Wolf) A Flow of the Spirit Perrin shrugged into his coat as he walked back toward the Star through the evening shadows. A good tiredness soaked through his arms and shoulders; along with more common work, Master Ajala had had him make a large piece of ornamental work, all elaborate curves and scrolls, to go on some country lords new gate. He had enjoyed making something so pretty. "I thought his eyes would come out of his face, blacksmith, when you said you would not make that thing if it was for a High Lord." He glanced sideways at Zarine, walking beside him, the shadows masking her face. Even for his eyes, the shadows were there, just fainter than they would have been for anothers. They emphasized her high cheekbones, softened the strong curve of her nose. He just could not make up his mind about her. Even if Moiraine and Lan still insisted they stay close to the inn, he wished she could find something else to do besides watch him work. For some reason, he had found himself growing awkward whenever he thought of her tilted eyes on him. More than once he had fumbled with his hammer till Master Ajala frowned at him wonderingly. Girls had always been able to make him feel awkward especially when they smiled at him, but Zarine did not have to smile. Only look. He wondered again if she was the beautiful woman Min had warned him against. Better if she is the falcon. That thought surprised him so much that he stumbled. "I did not want anything I make to get into the hands of one of the Forsaken." His eyes glowed golden as he looked at her. "If it was for a High Lord, how could I tell where it might end?" She shivered. "I did not mean to frighten you, Fai-, Zarine." She smiled broadly, no doubt thinking he could not see her. "You will fall yet, farmboy. Have you ever thought of wearing a beard?" It is bad enough shes always mocking me, but half the time I do not even understand her! As they reached the front door of the inn, Moiraine and Lan met them, coming the other way. Moiraine wore that linen cloak with the wide, deep hood that hid her face. Light from the commonroom windows made yellow pools on the paving stones. Two or three carriages rumbled past, and there were perhaps a dozen people in sight, hurrying home for their suppers, but for the most part, shadows populated the street. The weavers shop was closed tight. The silence was deafening. "Rand is in Tear." The Aes Sedais cool voice issued from the depths of her hood as from a cavern. "Are you sure?" Perrin asked. "I have not heard of anything strange happening. No weddings, or wells drying up." He saw Zarine frown in confusion. Moiraine had not been forthcoming with her, and neither had he. Keeping Loials tongue silent had been more difficult. "Dont you listen to rumors, blacksmith?" the Warder said. "There have been marriages, as many in the last four days as in half a year before. And as many murders as in a whole year. A child fell from a tower balcony today. A hundred paces onto stone paving. She got up and ran to her mother without a bruise. The First of Mayene, a guest in the Stone since before the winter, announced today that she will submit to the will of the High Lords, after saying yesterday she would see Mayene and all its ships burn before one Tairen country lord set foot in the city. They had not brought themselves to torture her, and that young woman has a will like iron, so you tell me if you think it might be Rands doing. Blacksmith, from top to bottom, Tear bubbles like a cauldron." "These things were not needed to tell me," Moiraine said. "Perrin, did you dream of Rand last night?" rdquo; he admitted. "He was in the Heart of the Stone, holding that sword" - he felt Zarine shift beside him - "but I have been worrying about that so much it is no wonder I dream of it. I had nothing but nightmares last night." "A tall man?" Zarine said. "With reddish hair and gray eyes? Holding something that shines so brightly it hurts your eyes? In a place that is all great redstone columns? Blacksmith, tell me that "You see," Moiraine said. "I have heard this dream spoken of a hundred times today. They all speak of nightmares - Belal apparently does not care to shield his dreams - but that one above all else." She laughed suddenly, like low, cool chimes. "People say he is the Dragon Reborn. They say he is coming. They whisper it fearfully in corners, but they say it." "And what of Belal?" Perrin asked. Moiraines reply was colddrawn steel. "I will deal with him tonight." There was no fear scent from her. "We will deal with him tonight," Lan told her. "Yes, my Gaidin. We will deal with him." "And what do we do? Sit here and wait? I had enough waiting to last me a lifetime in the mountains, Moiraine." "You and Loial - and Zarine - will go to Tar Valon," she told him. "Until this is done. It will be the safest place for you." "Where is the Ogier?" Lan said. "I want all three of you on your way north as soon as possible." "Upstairs, I suppose," Perrin said. "In his room, or maybe the dining room. There are lights in the windows up there. He is always working on those notes of his. I suppose he will have plenty to say in his book about us running away." He was surprised at the bitterness in his voice. Light, fool, do you want to face one of the Forsaken? No. No, but I am tired of running. I remember not running, once. I remember fighting back, and it was better. Even if I thought I was going to die, it was better. "I will find him," Zarine announced. "I have no shame in admitting I will be glad enough to run from this fight. Men fight when they should run, and fools fight when they should run. But I had no need to say it twice." She strode ahead of them, her narrow, divided skirts making small whisking noises as they entered the inn. Perrin glanced around the common room as they followed her toward the stairs in the back. There were fewer men at the tables than he expected. Some sat alone, with dull eyes, but where two or three sat together they talked in frightened whispers his ears could barely catch. Even so, he heard "Dragon" three times. As he reached the top of the stairs, he heard another soft sound, a thump as of something falling in the private dining room. He peered that way along the hall. "Zarine?" There was no answer. He felt the hair on the back of his neck shift, and padded that way. "Zarine?" He pushed open the door. "Faile!" She was lying on the floor near the table. As he started to rush into the room, Moiraines commanding shout halted him. "Stop, you fool! Stop, for your life!" She came along the hallway slowly, head turning as if she were listening for something, or searching for something. Lan followed with his hand on his sword - and a look in his eye as if he already knew steel would do no good. She came abreast of the door and stopped. "Move back, Perrin. Move back!" In agony he stared at Zarine. At Faile. She lay there as if lifeless. Finally he made himself step back from the door, leaving it open, standing where he could see her. She looked as if she were dead. He could not see her chest stir. He wanted to howl. Frowning, he worked his hand, the one he had used to push the door into the room, opening and closing his fingers. It tingled sharply, as if he had struck his elbow. "Arent you going to do anything, Moiraine? If you will not, I am going to her." "Stand still or you will go nowhere," she said calmly. "What is that by her right hand? As if it dropped from her grip when she fell. I cannot make it out." He glared at her, then peered into the room. "A hedgehog. It looks like a hedgehog carved out of wood. Moiraine, tell me what is going on! What has happened? Tell me!" "A hedgehog," she murmured. "A hedgehog. Be silent, Perrin. I must think. I felt it trigger. I can sense the residues of the flows woven to set it. Spirit. Pure Spirit, and nothing else. Almost nothing uses pure flows of Spirit! Why does that hedgehog make me think of Spirit?" "You felt what trigger, Moiraine? What was set? A trap?" "Yes, a trap," she said, irritation making tiny cracks in her cool serenity . "A trap meant for me. I would have been first into that room if Zarine had not rushed ahead. Lan and I would surely have gone there to plan and wait for supper. I will not wait on supper now. Be quiet, if you wish me to help the girl at all. Lan! Bring me that innkeeper!" The Warder flowed away down the stairs. Moiraine paced up and down in the hall, sometimes stopping to peer through the door from the depths of her hood. Perrin could see no sign that Zarine lived. Her breast did not stir. He tried listening for her heartbeat, but even for his ears it was impossible. When Lan returned, shoving a frightened Jurah Haret ahead of him by the scruff of his fat neck, the Aes Sedai rounded on the balding man. "You promised to keep this room for me, Master Haret." Her voice was as hard, as precise, as a skinning knife. "To allow not even a serving woman to enter to clean unless I was present. Who did you let enter it, Master Haret? Tell me!" Haret shook like a bowl of pudding. "Oonly the ttwo Ladies, mistress. Tthey wwished to leave a surprise for you. I swear, mistress. Tthey showed it tto me. A little hhedgehog. Tthey said you wwould be surprised." surprised, innkeeper," she said softly. "Leave me! And if you whisper a word of this, even in your sleep, I will pull this inn down and leave only a hole in the ground." "Yyes, mistress," he whispered. "I swear it! I do swear!" "Go!" The innkeeper fell to his knees in his haste to reach the stairs, and went scrambling down with thumps that suggested he fell more than once as he ran. "He knows I am here," Moiraine told the Warder, "and he has found someone of the Black Ajah to set his trap, yet perhaps he thinks I am caught in it. It was a tiny flash of the Power, but perhaps he is strong enough to have sensed it." "Then he will not suspect we are coming," Lan said quietly. He almost smiled. Perrin stared at them, his teeth bared. "What about her?" he demanded. "What was done to her, Moiraine? Is she alive? I cannot see her breathe!" "She is alive," Moiraine said slowly. "I cannot, I dare not, go close enough to her to tell much beyond that, but she is alive. She... sleeps, in a way. As a bear sleeps in the winter. Her heart beats so slowly you could count minutes between. Her breathing is the same. She sleeps." Even from within that hood, he could feel her eyes on him. "I fear she is not there, Perrin. Not in h "What do you mean she is not in her body? Light! You dont mean they... took her soul. Like the Gray Men!" Moiraine shook her head, and he drew a relieved breath. His chest hurt as if he had not breathed since she last spoke. "Then where is she, Moiraine?" "I do not know," she said. "I have a suspicion, but I do not know." "A suspicion, a hint, anything! Burn me, where?" Lan shifted at the roughness in his voice, but he knew he would try to break the Warder like iron over a hardy if the man tried to stop him. "Where?" "I know very little, Perrin." Moiraines voice was like cold, unfeeling music. "I have remembered the little I know of what connects a carved hedgehog with Spirit. The carving is a terangreal last studied by Corianin Nedeal, the last Dreamer the Tower had. The Talent called Dreaming is a thing of Spirit, Perrin. It is not a thing I have ever studied; my Talents lie in other ways. I believe that Zarine has been trapped inside a dream, perhaps even the World of Dreams, Telaranrhiod. All that is her is inside that dream. All. A Dreamer sends only a part of herself. If Zarine does not return soon, her body will die. Perhaps she will live on in the dream. I do not know." "There is too much you dont know," Perrin muttered. He peered into the room and wanted to cry. Zarine looked so small, lying there, so helpless. Faile. I swear I will only call you Faile, ever again. "Why dont you do something!" "The trap has been sprung, Perrin, but it is a trap that will still catch anyone who steps into that room. I would not reach her side before it took me. And I have work I must do tonight." "Burn you, Aes Sedai! Burn your work! This World of Dreams? Is it like the wolf dreams? You said these Dreamers sometimes saw wolves." "I have told you what I can," she said sharply. "It is time for you to go. Lan and I must be on our way to the Stone. There can be no waiting, now." "No." He said it quietly, but when Moiraine opened her mouth, he raised his voice. "No! I will not leave her!" The Aes Sedai took a deep breath. "Very well, Perrin." Her voice was ice; calm, smooth, cold. "Remain if you wish. Perhaps you will survive this night. Lan!" She and the Warder strode down the hall to their rooms. In moments they returned, Lan wearing his colorchanging cloak, and vanished down the stairs without another word to him. He stared through the open door at Faile. I have to do something. If it is like the wolf dreams... "Perrin," came Loials deep rumble, "what is this about Faile?" The Ogier came striding down the hall in his shirtsleeves, ink on his fingers and a pen in his hand. "Lan told me I had to go, and then he said something about Faile, in a trap. What did he mean?" Distractedly, Perrin told him what Moiraine had said. It might work. It might. It has to! He was surprised when Loial growled. "No! Perrin, it is not right! Faile was so free. It is not right to trap her!" Perrin peered up at Loials face, and suddenly remembered the old stories that claimed Ogier were implacable enemies. Loials ears had laid back along the sides of his head, and his broad face was as hard as an anvil. "Loial, I am going to try to help Faile. But I will be helpless myself while I do. Will you guard my back?" Loial raised those huge hands that held books so carefully, and his thick fingers curled as if to crush stone. "None will pass me while I live, Perrin. Not Myrddraal or the Dark One himself." He said it like a simple statement of fact. Perrin nodded, and looked through the door again. It has to work. I dont care if Min warned me against her or not! With a snarl he leaped toward Faile, stretching out his hand. He thought he touched her ankle before he was gone. Whether this dream of the trap was Telaranrhiod or not, Perrin did not know, but he knew it for the wolf dream. Rolling, grassy hills surrounded him, and scattered thickets. He saw deer browsing at the edges of the trees, and a herd of some sort of running animal bounding across the grass, like brownstriped deer, but with long, straight horns. The smells on the wind told him they were good to eat, and other scents spoke of more good hunting all around him. This was the wolf dream. He was wearing the blacksmiths long leather vest, he realized, with his arms bare. And there was a weight at his side. He touched the axe belt, but it was not the axe hanging from its loop. He ran his fingers over the head of the heavy smiths hammer. It felt right. Hopper alighted in front of him. Again you come, like a fool. The sending was of a cub sticking its nose into a hollow tree trunk to lap honey despite the bees stinging its muzzle and eyes. The danger is greater than ever, Young Bull. Evil things walk the dream. The brothers and sisters avoid the mountains of stone the twolegs pile up, and almost fear to dream to one another. You must go! dquo; Perrin said. "Faile is here, somewhere, trapped. I have to find her, Hopper. I have to!" He felt a shifting inside him, something changing. He looked down at his curlyhaired legs, his wide paws. He was an even larger wolf than Hopper. You are here too strongly! Every sending carried shock. You will die, Young Bull! If I do not free the falcon, I do not care, brother. Then we hunt, brother. Noses to the wind, the two wolves ran across the plain, seeking the falcon. PROLOGUE 1 2 3 4 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 20 21 22 23 24 25 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 House, so it was me that the Guild held responsible 42 43 44 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 54 55 56Back to Table of contentTOP AUTHORSTerry PratchettDarren ShanSamantha YoungGav ThorpePamela PalmerGene WolfeF. Paul WilsonAmanda MaxlynJodi Ellen MalpasJill ShalvisSusan HillSherrilyn KenyonMegan ShepherdColleen GleasonKylie ScottCourtney SummersElizabeth KostovaYanna LeeTobias S. BuckellJennifer EstepGeorgia CatesEmma ChaseJ.C. ReedC.J. EllissonBrent WeeksKendare BlakeSam SykesMeg CabotNicole Peeler Philip AthansLauren KateS.D. PerryMax BrooksFritz LeiberMaryJanice DavidsonJames S.A. CoreyR.K. LilleyMolly McAdamsRobert McCammonKatja Millay < Copyright © novelfull thefreeonlinenovel.com All Rights Reserved.