 Toggle navigationHomeLatest UpdateAdventureChristianFantasyHistoricalHorrorHumorousMysteryRomanceScience FictionThrillerWesternYoung AdultTop BooksPreySphereBlack RoseThe Great Train RobberyBlue DahliaCarnal InnocenceDance Upon the AirHigh NoonLawlessSacred SinsTributeFace the FireHolding the DreamA Man for AmandaAll the PossibilitiesNextThe Dragon Reborn 16 () 16 (Lion Rampant) Hunters Three Nynaeves room was considerably larger than the novice rooms. She had a real bed, not one built into the wall, two ladderback armchairs instead of a stool, and a wardrobe for her clothes. The furnishings were all plain, suitable for a middling successful farmers house, but compared to the novices, the Accepted lived in luxury. There was even a small rug, woven with scrolls of yellow and red on blue. The room was not empty when Egwene and Nynaeve entered. Elayne stood in front of the fireplace, arms crossed beneath her breasts and eyes red at least partly from anger. Two tall young men sprawled in the chairs, all arms and legs. One, with his dark green coat undone to show a snowy shirt, shared Elaynes blue eyes and redgold hair, and his grinning face marked him plainly as her brother. The other, Nynaeves age and with his gray coat neatly buttoned, was slender and dark of hair and eye. He rose, all sure confidence and lithely muscled grace, when Egwene and Nynaeve came in. He was, Egwene thought not for the first time, the most handsome man she had ever seen. His name was Galad. "It is good to see you again," he said, taking her hand. "I have worried much over you. We have worried much." Her pulse quickened, and she took back her hand before he should feel it. "Thank you, Galad," she murmured. Light, but hes beautiful. She told herself to stop thinking that way. It was not easy. She found herself smoothing her dress, wishing he were seeing her in silk instead of this plain white wool, perhaps even one of those Domani dresses Min had told her of, the ones that clung and seemed so thin you thought they must be transparent even though they were not. She flushed furiously and banished the image from her mind, willed him to look away from her face. It did not help that half the women in the Tower, from scullery maids to Aes Sedai themselves, looked at him as if they had the same thoughts. It did not help that his smile seemed for her alone. In fact, his smile made it worse. Light, if he even suspected what I was thinking, Id die! The goldenhaired young man leaned forward in his chair. "The question is, where have you been? Elayne dodges my questions as if she has a pocket full of figs and doesnt want me to have any." "I have told you, Gawyn," Elayne said in a tight voice, "it is none of your affair. I came here," she added to Nynaeve, "because I did not want to be alone. They saw me, and followed. They would not take no for an answer." "Wouldnt they," Nynaeve said flatly. "But it is our affair, sister," Galad said. "Your safety is very much our affair." He looked at Egwene, and she felt her heart jump. "The safety of all of you is very important to me. To us." "I am not your sister," Elayne snapped. "If you want company," Gawyn told Elayne with a smile, "we can do as well as any. And after what we went through just to be here, we deserve some explanation of where youve been. I would rather let Galad thump me all over the practice yard all day than face Mother again for a single minute. Id rather have Coulin mad at me." Coulin was Master of Arms, and kept a tight discipline among the young men who came to train at the White Tower whether they aspired to become Warders or just to learn from them. "Deny the connection if you will," Galad told Elayne gravely, "but it is still there. And Mother put your safety in our hands." Gawyn grimaced. "Shell have our hides, Elayne, if anything happens to you. We had to talk fast, or shed have hauled us back home with her. I have never heard of a queen sending her own sons to the headsman, but Mother sounded ready to make an exception if we dont bring you home safely." "I am sure," Elayne said, "that your fast talk was all for me. None of it was meant to let you stay here studying with the Warders." Gawyns face reddened. "Your safety was our first concern." Galad sounded as if he meant it, and Egwene was sure he did. "We managed to convince Mother that if you did return here, you would need someone to look after you." "Look after me!" Elayne exclaimed, but Galad went on smoothly. "The White Tower has become a dangerous place. There have been deaths - murders - with no real explanations. Even some Aes Sedai have been killed, though they have tried to keep that quiet. And I have heard rumors of the Black Ajah, spoken in the Tower itself. By Mothers command, when it is safe for you to leave your training, we are to return you to Caemlyn." For answer, Elayne lifted her chin and half turned away from him. Gawyn ran a hand through his hair in frustration. "Light, Nynaeve, Galad and I are not villains. All we want to do is help. We would do it anyway, but Mother commanded it, so theres no chance of you talking us out of it." "Morgases commands carry no weight in Tar Valon," Nynaeve said in a level voice. "As for your offer of help, I will remember it. Should we need help, you will be among the first to hear of it. For now, I wish you to leave." She gestured pointedly to the door, but he ignored her. "That is all very well, but Mother will want to know Elayne has come back. And why she ran off without a word, and what she was doing these months. Light, Elayne! The whole Tower was in a turmoil. Mother was halfcrazed with fear. I thought shed tear the Tower down with her bare hands." Elaynes face took on a measure of guilt, and Gawyn pressed his advantage. "You owe her that much, Elayne. You owe me that much. Burn me, youre being as stubborn as stone. Youve been gone for months, and all I know about it is that youve run afoul of Sheriam. And the only reasons I know that much are because youve been crying and you wont sit down." Elaynes indignant stare said he had squandered entary advantage he might have had. "Enough," Nynaeve said. Galad and Gawyn opened their mouths. She raised her voice. "I said enough!" She glared at them until it was clear their silence would hold, then went on. "Elayne owes the two of you nothing. Since she chooses to tell you nothing, that is that. Now, this is my room, not the common room of an inn, and I want you out of it." "But, Elayne -" Gawyn began at the same time that Galad said, "We only want -" Nynaeve spoke loudly enough to drown them out. "I doubt you asked permission to enter the Accepteds quarters." They stared at her, looking surprised. "I thought not. You will be out of my room, out of my sight, before I count three, or I will write a note to the Master of Arms about this. Coulin Gaidin has a much stronger arm than Sheriam Sedai, and you may be assured that I will be there to see he makes "Nynaeve, you wouldnt -" Gawyn began worriedly, but Galad motioned him to silence and stepped closer to Nynaeve. Her face kept its stern expression, but she unconsciously smoothed the front of her dress as he smiled down at her. Egwene was not surprised. She did not think she had met a woman outside the Red Ajah who would not be affected by Galads smile. "I apologize, Nynaeve, for our forcing ourselves on you unwanted," he said smoothly. "We will go, of course. But remember that we are here if you need us. And whatever caused you to run away, we can help with that, as well." Nynaeve returned his smile. "One," she said. Galad blinked, his smile fading. Calmly, he turned to Egwene. Gawyn got up and started for the door. "Egwene," Galad said, "you know that you, especially, can call on me at any time, for anything. I hope you know that." "Two," Nynaeve said. Galad gave her an irritated look. "We will talk again," he told Egwene, bowing over her hand. With a last smile, he took an unhurried step toward the door. "Thrrrrrrrrr" - Gawyn darted through the door, and even Galads graceful stride quickened markedly - "ree," Nynaeve finished as the door banged shut behind them. Elayne clapped her hands delightedly. "Oh, well done," she said. "Very well done. I did not even know men were forbidden the Accepteds quarters, too." "They arent," Nynaeve said dryly, "but those louts did not know it, either." Elayne clapped her hands again and laughed. "Id have let them just leave," Nynaeve added, "if Galad had not made such a show of taking his time about it. That young man has too fair a face for his own good." Egwene almost laughed at that; Galad was no more than a year younger than Nynaeve, if that, and Nynaeve was straightening her dress again. "Galad!" Elayne sniffed. "Hell bother us again, and I do not know whether your trick will work more than once. He does what he sees as right no matter who it hurts, even himself." "Then I will think of something else," Nynaeve said . "We cant afford to have them looking over our shoulders all the time. Elayne, if you wish, I can make a salve that will soothe you." Elayne shook her head, then lay down across the bed with her chin in her hands. "If Sheriam found out, we would no doubt both have yet another visit to her study to look forward to. You have not said very much, Egwene. Cat caught your tongue?" Her expression became grimmer. "Or perhaps Galad has?" Egwene blushed in spite of herself. "I simply did not choose to argue with them," she said in as dignified a tone as she could manage. "Of course," Elayne said grudgingly. "I will admit that Galad is goodlooking. But he is horrid, too. He always does right, as he sees it. I know that does not sound horrid, but it is. He has never disobeyed Mother, not in the smallest thing that I know of. He will not tell a lie, even a small one, or break a rule. If he turns you in for breaking one, there isnt the slightest spite in it - he seems sad you could not live up to his standards, if anything - but that doesnt change the fact that he will turn you in." "That sounds - uncomfortable," - Egwene said carefully, "but not horrid. I cannot imagine Galad doing anything horrid." Elayne shook her head, as if in disbelief that Egwene found it so hard to see what was clear to her. "If you want to pay attention to someone, try Gawyn. He is nice enough - most of the time - and hes besotted with you." "Gawyn! He has never looked at me twice." "Of course not, you fool, the way you stare at Galad until your eyes look ready to fall out of your face." Egwenes cheeks felt hot, but she was afraid it might well be true. "Galad saved his life when Gawyn was a child," Elayne went on. "Gawyn will never admit he is interested in a woman if Galad is interested in her, but I have heard him talk about you, and I know. He never could hide things from me." "That is nice to know," Egwene said, then laughed at Elaynes grin. "Perhaps I can get him to say some of those things to me instead of you." "You could choose Green Ajah, you know. Green sisters sometimes marry. Gawyn truly is besotted, and you would be good for him. Besides, I would like to have you for a sister." "If you two are finished with girlish chatter," Nynaeve cut in, "there are important matters to talk about." "Yes," Elayne said, "such as what the Amyrlin Seat had to say to you after I left." ld rather not talk about that," Egwene said awkwardly. She did not like lying to Elayne. "She did not say anything that was pleasant." Elayne gave a sniff of disbelief. "Most people think I get off easier than the others because I am DaughterHeir of Andor. The truth is that if anything, I catch it harder than the rest because Im DaughterHeir. Neither of you did anything I did not, and if the Amyrlin had harsh words for you, she would have twice as harsh for me. Now, what did she say?" "You must keep this just between us three," Nynaeve said. "The Black Ajah -" "Nynaeve!" Egwene exclaimed. "The Amyrlin said Elayne was to be left out of it!" "The Black Ajah!" Elayne almost shouted, scrambling up to kneel in the middle of the bed. "You cannot leave me out after telling me this much. I wont be left out." "I never meant for you to be," Nynaeve assured her. Egwene could only stare at her in amazement. "Egwene, it was you and I who Liandrin saw as a threat. It was you and I who were just nearly killed -" "Nearly killed?" Elayne whispered. "- perhaps because we are still a threat, and perhaps because they already know that we were closeted alone with the Amyrlin, and even what she told us. We need someone with us who they do not know about, and if she isnt known to the Amyrlin, either, so much the better. I am not sure we can trust the Amyrlin much further than the Black Ajah. She means to use us for her own ends. I mean to see she doesnt use us up. Can you understand that?" Egwene nodded reluctantly. Just the same, she said, "It will be dangerous, Elayne, as dangerous as anything we faced in Falme. Maybe more so. You do not have to be par "I know that," Elayne said quietly. She paused, then went on. "When Andor goes to war, the First Prince of the Sword commands the army, but the Queen rides with them, too. Seven hundred years ago, at the Battle of Cuallin Dhen, the Andormen were being routed when Queen Modrellein rode, alone and unarmed, carrying the Lion banner into the midst of the Tairen army. The Andormen rallied and attacked once more, to save her, and won the battle. That is the kind of courage expected of the Queen of Andor. If I have not learned to control my fear yet, I must before I take my mothers place on the Lion Throne." Suddenly her somber mood vanished in a giggle. "Besides, do you think I would pass up an adventure so I could scrub pots?" "You will do that anyway," Nynaeve told her, "and hope that everyone thinks that is all you are doing. Now listen carefully." Elayne listened, and her mouth slowly dropped open as Nynaeve unfolded what the Amyrlin Seat had told them, and the task she had laid on them, and the attempt on their lives. She shivered over the Gray Man, and read the document the Amyrlin had given Nynaeve with a look of wonder, then returned it, murmuring, "I wish I could have that when I face Mother next." By the time Nynaeve finished, though, her face was a picture of indignation. "Why, thats like being told to go up in the hills and find lions, only you do not know whether there are any lions, but if there are, they may be hunting you, and they may be disguised as bushes. Oh, and if you find any lions, try not to let them eat you before you can tell where they are." "If you are afraid," Nynaeve said, "you can still stand aside. It will be too late, once youve begun." Elayne tossed her head back. "Of course I am afraid. I am not a fool. But not afraid enough to quit before I have even started." "There is something else, too," Nynaeve said. "I am afraid the Amyrlin may mean to let Mat die." "But an Aes Sedai is supposed to Heal anyone who asks." The DaughterHeir seemed caught between indignation and disbelief. "Why would she let Mat die? I cannot believe it! I will not!" "Nor can I!" Egwene gasped. She could not have meant that! The Amyrlin couldnt let him die! "All the way here Verin said that the Amyrlin would see he was Healed." Nynaeve shook her head. "Verin said the Amyrlin would see to him. That is not the same thing. And the Amyrlin avoided saying yes or no when I asked her. Maybe she has not made her mind up." "But why?" Elayne asked. "Because the White Tower does what it does for its own reasons." Nynaeves voice made Egwene shiver. "I do not know why. Whether they help Mat live or let him die depends on what serves their ends. None of the Three Oaths says they have to Heal him. Mat is just a tool, in the Amyrlins eyes. So are we. She will use us to hunt the Black Ajah, but if you break a tool so it cannot be fixed, you dont weep over it. You just get another one. Both of you had best remember that." "What are we going to do about him?" Egwene asked. "What can we do?" Nynaeve went to her wardrobe and rummaged in the back of it. When she came out, she had a striped cloth bag of herbs. "With my medicines - and luck - perhaps I can Heal him myself." "Verin could not," Elayne said. "Moiraine and Verin together could not, and Moiraine had an angreal. Nynaeve, if you draw too much of the One Power, you could burn yourself to a cinder. Or just still yourself, if you are lucky. If you can call that luck." Nynaeve shrugged. "They keep telling me I have the potential to be the most powerful Aes Sedai in a thousand years. Perhaps it is time to find out whether they are right." She gave a tug to her braid. It was plain that however brave Nynaeves words, she was afraid. But she wont let Mat die even if it means risking death herself. "They keep saying were all three so powerful - or will be. Maybe, if we all try together, we can divide the flow among us." "We have never tried working together," Nynaeve said slowly. "I am not sure I know how to combine our abilities. Trying could be almost as dangerous as drawing too much of the Power." "Oh, if we are going to do it," Elayne said, climbing off the bed, "lets do it. The longer we talk of it, the more frightened I will become. Mat is in the guest rooms. I do not know which one, but Sheriam told me that much." As if to put period to her words, the door banged open, and an Aes Sedai entered as though it were her room, and they the interlopers. Egwene made her curtsy deep, to hide the dismay on her face. PROLOGUE 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 17 18 20 21 22 23 24 25 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 House, so it was me that the Guild held responsible 42 43 44 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56Back to Table of contentTOP AUTHORSTerry PratchettDarren ShanSamantha YoungGav ThorpePamela PalmerGene WolfeF. Paul WilsonAmanda MaxlynJodi Ellen MalpasJill ShalvisSusan HillSherrilyn KenyonMegan ShepherdColleen GleasonKylie ScottCourtney SummersElizabeth KostovaYanna LeeTobias S. BuckellJennifer EstepGeorgia CatesEmma ChaseJ.C. ReedC.J. EllissonBrent WeeksKendare BlakeSam SykesMeg CabotNicole Peeler Philip AthansLauren KateS.D. PerryMax BrooksFritz LeiberMaryJanice DavidsonJames S.A. CoreyR.K. LilleyMolly McAdamsRobert McCammonKatja Millay < Copyright © novelfull thefreeonlinenovel.com All Rights Reserved.